It's still a moving target with the with
the tariffs. Even the trade deals that
are struck, they're still not very
detailed.
We're at really high tariff rates right
now. In our minds, the next signal
points upward.
There's still a lot of story to be told.
There's still a lot of negotiations to
go on.
Not a pretty thing to watch, but I think
the markets have figured out that uh
this is going to get resolved in the
next few months. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, no extensions.
We didn't move. It was always been
August 1st. They didn't make a change.
Clarification. Maybe August 1st. They
pay and everybody pays. if they want to
uh buy and make a lot of money and sell
in the United States, they have to do
that.
President Donald Trump stressing he
won't be offering additional extensions.
The White House vowing to push towards a
50% tariff on imports of copper and the
race to take Fed chair JPL's seat
narrowing down to the two Kevin. The
risks are building, equities are looking
right through it. You know, this really
comes down to the headlines are scary,
the numbers are scary, but people have
seen this movie before and they're
viewing this as a negotiating tactic,
which is the reason why equities just
are not blinking. And possibly, and this
is the important thing, maybe trading
partners aren't blinking either. We
aren't getting any details with the 50%
copper tariffs. There were no even uh
you know, presidential memos put out on
this. It was an off-the- cuff comment.
And this may be a way of getting more
leverage, escalate to deescalate, ahead
of August 1st. The two days of very mild
losses on the S&P 500 compared to the
two days after April 2nd. Down 5% down
6%. It's nothing like it this time
around.
It's not. And it feels like almost the
boy who cried wolf. The market is saying
yes, we hear you. You're going to try
for this maximalist approach when it
comes to negotiating, but we don't
believe you're going to follow through.
Which is why even when the president
took to truth yesterday and said it is
going to be August 1st, no if ends or
buts, the market just sort of shrugged
it off. What's interesting about copper
is that we knew this was coming down the
pipeline. Right. This has been a
national security concern the president
has talked about since February. It's
the 50% that has people on edge. And the
questions given your point that this was
just an off-the- cuff comment, no
details. Will there be carveouts? And
what kind of timing are we looking for
when this can actually hit?
Well, let's sit on copper. Potentially
the global market's going to be split in
two. And in theory, and I stress in
theory, higher prices should stimulate
domestic supply in theory. But in
practice, we know the issues that we've
got here in America. We've got the
deposits. We've got a regulatory
problem. A lot of these things have been
wound up in the courts, stuck in the
courts for the best part of a decade.
Yeah, we have seen these mines,
particularly in the southwest of the
United States, that haven't gotten off
the ground for, as you say, more than a
decade. Can they get the regulatory
approvals quickly enough to actually
generate the output? And as Amarie is
shaking her head, a lot of people think
that this is going to really penalize
industrial United States just at a time
when this presidential administration is
trying to ignite it. And there's going
to be higher prices because the US does
not have the copper it needs when it
comes to its own manufacturing. And
you're saying how long can this take
even if you have a deregulatory
environment. It doesn't take months,
doesn't take years, it takes decades
when you're looking at potentially
building out the entire supply chain
when it comes to copper.
Should we talk about the two Kevins?
Yes, please.
Kevin Walsh. Kevin has it narrowing down
to two in the race to replace Chairman
Pal according to the Wall Street
Journal. with some people moving away
from Kevin Worsh given his hawkish past.
Ultimately, this is a president who's
come out and said, "I want a Fed chair
who's going to lower rates and lower
rates a lot. Too late has been too
late." And that's what his new nom
moniker for uh Jerome Powell. This to me
I think is arguably one of the biggest
stories out there because if you have
the inflationary push from some of these
tariffs, if you have an economy that's
still okay and you have a Fed chair
that's being selected purely on their
willingness to lower rates significantly
on the front end, what does that do to
inflation? What does that do to rates
and how much this really speaks to the
reason why increasing numbers of notes
are coming out and saying we prefer
European government bonds to US bonds?
Black Rockck said exactly that. We'll
catch up with Black Rockck a little bit
later on this morning. Fed minutes
coming later on this afternoon. Look out
for that and look out for this too. $39
billion in 10-year notes coming to
market. Some important supply for this
Treasury market. Coming up on this hour,
we'll catch up with Keith Lerner of
Truis with stocks looking to snap a
two-day slide. Scott Lindse of the KO
Institute on a major 50% copper tariff
and Andrew Sheets of Morgan Stanley on
the race for the next Fed chair. We
begin this hour with our top story.
President Trump promising more tariffs
and no extensions. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from Washington for
more. Good morning, Tyler.
Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. Well,
President Trump says that we can expect
two waves of additional tariff letters
to go out today. He says a minimum of
seven countries will receive them this
morning, followed by a second batch this
afternoon. As he doubles down, this is
the last chance for them to negotiate.
Appearing to walk back what was
perceived flexibility earlier this week,
where he said that August 1st was firm,
but not 100% firm, and now he says that
there will be no extension. He told
reporters yesterday in the Oval Office
that these tariff letters could outline
rates as high as 60 or 70% for some
countries, though declined to give
specifics beyond that. That would of
course be significantly higher than the
marginal differences that we've seen
outlined in these letters so far. When
it comes to who we're potentially
watching that could receive these
letters, he did say that the European
Union could be on the list. considered
to be surprising since our understanding
of these letters is that these are the
trading partners that the White House at
the moment is the most frustrated with
when it comes to negotiating. But it
does appear that this really is the
administration's last push to get the
best offers on the table. And our
understanding has been that the EU has
been making progress with people
familiar telling Bloomberg News earlier
this week that they were nearing a
technical agreement in principle. John,
we know at the heart of those
negotiations really has been those
sector specific tariffs enacted under
section 232 on the basis of national
security concerns, particularly when it
comes to autos and steel that are
already in place. But as we get this new
threat about copper and pharmaceuticals,
that no doubt is ramping up the pressure
and unwelcome news to our trading
partners as they sprint ahead to get a
deal by the end of the month.
Mattala Kendall down in Washington.
That's the situation in the nation's
capital. Here's the view on Wall Street
so far this morning. And Keith Lerner of
Truist writing the following. It's been
a year that began with our annual
outlook, a bull in a China shop. And
while things did break along the way,
the bull kept charging. We would stick
with the primary uptrend. Keith joins us
now for more. Keith, welcome to the
program, sir. Let's go through this. The
president's threatening some big levies,
some extra tariffs, and yet equities are
still very close to all-time highs. So,
I'll give you three options. Either the
market is just looking right through it
and doesn't believe the president, or
tariffs don't matter, or this market is
offside. Out of those three, Keith,
which one speaks to you?
I think one in three speaks to me. Um,
you know, it's kind of what uh Emarie
said earlier. It's kind of like, you
know, fool me once, shame on me. Fool me
twice. Uh, you know, I'm sorry. Fool me
once. Um, shame on on you. Sh fool me
twice, shame on me. Sorry, I messed that
up. But so I think the market's become
somewhat numb to this. and they know
back in April when we um when the when
we when the market sold off because of
this, you know, a lot of people or
institutions were off sides and other
markets come back and we still have seen
normalization in positioning but um
still somewhat underweight. So I think I
think investors at this point are
hesitant to go on defense again. Now um
the other point I'd make is you know
we've been going through this carousel
of concerns all year long whether it's
geopolitical or terrorists or what have
you. Uh and I think we also have to
don't lose sight that you know tariffs
do matter. What happened with COPE does
matter but it's not the only thing that
matters. Tech still matters. We have
corporate earning season uh coming up as
well. And we've seen corporate America
prove very resilient uh over the last uh
you know several months and several
years in fact.
It seems like Keith there is this
viewpoint that's been coalescing over
the past few months that stocks are in a
better position to weather all of this
than bonds. Do you think that that still
stands that that essentially is the
landscape at a time where we've seen
that inflation can be good for stocks
and that companies particularly the
biggest ones have adapted and adjusted?
I think on the margin uh that's true. I
mean we we do have to recognize that as
the market has come up you know
valuations are back to 22 multiple on
the S&P um even though stocks are in
inflation heads you know we also have
expectations that have come up. So, you
know, overall in our portfolios, we're
more aligned with our long-term targets
of stock stocks, bonds, and cash right
now. But we do favor large caps in
particular because of the what you just
mentioned, the adaptability and and you
know, all in all, when we think about
this year, another thing that's still
positive, the forward earning trends
continue to move up. So, I think the
market has earned the benefit of the
doubt and even though we will likely see
some more broken glass in the China
shop, I still think the this kind of
uptrend deserves that benefit of the
doubt. Okay, so that's the stock market.
Let's talk about the bond market,
especially as the two uh Kevin go to
Washington DC and plead their case to be
the next Fed chair. I'm just wondering
how concerned you are about the
credibility here and the possibility
that there could be a chair. The
jawbones the committee into lowering
rates substantially at a time where
there still are inflationary pressures
and the economy is still chugging along.
No, it it is a concern. I mean, uh you
know, right now the the 10-year Treasury
is around 440. It's interesting despite
all the news on cop overnight, it's
basically flat and it's been in a range
for some time. I think that's helped the
equity market. If the market got
concerned um that we would, you know,
artificially move rates lower, then you
could see a steep and more concerns
about inflation and that could be
problematic for the for the overall
equity market. But I would also remind
folks that it's not just one person at
the Fed, right? There's 12 voting
members, which you might start to see is
more division within the Fed. And it's
not a lock sense that you could have
someone that comes in and automatically
just cut rates aggressively. Now, you
could have more of a bias that way, but
again, it is a committee of of of 12.
There's a lot of questions going into
the fall when it comes to the tariff
extensions before we get to the Fed
chair, which those interviews are
already starting to take place. If Trump
says there's going to be no extensions
and we do see these rates, particularly
say with Japan and South Korea, stay,
does the market just absorb it or will
they actually start to push back come
August?
I think as we get closer to the
deadline, even if it goes through, if if
if we start to see from from it sticking
for a couple days to a couple weeks, I
think the market will start to um to
feel that and it will have a hit because
right now the market is basically
assuming that things will get done. I
mean, and that there will be a
negotiation. If we do see things that
stay at a higher rate for a prolonged
period, especially with some of our
major trading partners, then I then I do
think that you'll see hiccups,
especially as you move into like August
and September. Tends to be less
liquidity, tends to be seasonally more
challenged in time. Um, but at the same
time, you know, I don't think we're
going to see necessarily a replay of
what we saw in April where this was, you
know, all new. I think you could see
maybe a pullback 5 10% but unlikely at
the same uh extreme. Now, the one thing
even with, you know, right now the the
the president probably feels somewhat
emboldened in that, you know, markets
are are back at an all-time high. We
have had employment that's been somewhat
solid here more recently. So, if you're
going to press against the trading
partners for leverage, he probably feels
a little bit more emboldened to do so
when the market is back to all-time
highs and the economy seems like it's
it's doing just fine. putting these two
stories together and to build on Lisa's
point about the Fed. Could we see by
September the equity market pushing back
on his tariff policy and the bond market
pushing back on what he wants to do when
it comes to the Fed chair?
No, that's certainly um you know that's
certainly you know a risk for the over
our market. But again, I think you know
this is going to stay front and center
especially over the summer. But I also
want to lose sight of, you know, what we
still see is the dominant theme of this
bull market, which is, you know,
technology and AI, which is over 40% of
the S&P. Doesn't mean that they're the,
you know, that there won't be a negative
impact, but, you know, don't forget the
earnings are the main driver of stocks
over time. And at least on the service
side and the technology side, you know,
those will likely continue to move up
because there's a secular theme that if
you don't invest in AI and tech that
you're going to be left behind. And also
likely we're starting to see a pickup in
in companies and corporations using AI
and leveraging it. So yes, it will
matter definitely a short-term hiccup
for the market, but I don't think it
necessarily ends the bull market itself.
Hey Keith, appreciate the update. Keith
Ler there of Truis. Just on that final
note from Keith, a lot of people
freaking out about tariffs. Look at Mark
Zuckerberg taking talent at $10 billion
a piece. That's not a man who's worried
about tariffs
because ultimately we've talked about
this before. AI is not necessarily
tariff dependent. This is dependent on
price insensitive buyers that have to
keep up with the re with the recent
trends.
Except I wonder what kind of push back
we could see when the semiconductor
sectoral tariffs come down the pipe when
it comes to these 232s like we saw with
copper and Trump floating and flirting
with this idea of 50%.
Stocks still very close to all-time
highs futures this morning positive by
about a tenth of 1%. With an update on
stories elsewhere with your blimp brief,
let's cross over to Lizzy Burden. Hey
Lizzy,
morning John. President Donald Trump has
vowed to push forward with his
aggressive tariff regime, stressing his
August deadline is final and he'll not
be offering additional extensions on
country specific levies, instead
hardening his tariff threats on copper
and pharmaceuticals. Elsewhere,
investigations are underway in the
deadly Texas flash flood. They're
looking into when weather forecasters
advise local officials about the
flooding and what those officials did to
spread the message to the thousands in
the area. The floods killed over 100
people and 161 remain missing. And
Amazon Prime Day sales have suffered an
early slump. Momentum Commerce reporting
a sales decline of nearly 14% in the
first four hours of the event compared
to last year. Prime Day stretches over
four days this year, up from two in
2024, making year-over-year comparisons
somewhat tricky. But in the initial
hours, they are seen as a key indication
of performance. And that should be my
brief. John
Lizzy, thank you. More from Lizzy in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, more tariffs.
I believe the tariff on copper, we're
going to make it 50%. We'll be
announcing something very soon on
pharmaceuticals. They're going to be
tariffed at a very, very high rate, like
200%.
In just a moment, we'll catch up with
Scott Lindum of the Ko Institute live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
The message out of Bank of America
yesterday, it's dangerous to
underestimate corporate America. That
from Sevilla Subramanium over at BFA
after she upgraded her S&P 500 price
target. Equity futures this morning just
about positive by a tenth of 1% on the
NASDAQ up by a tenth of 1% also. Lisa I
think Sevita wishing she took her own
advice when she put that note out a
number of months ago.
That's the sound of capitulating bears
on Wall Street across the board and this
is the reason why people have been so
reluctant to be bearish. It has been a
slap in the face time and time again as
this market continues to grind higher.
That's the equity story under Savannah
this morning. More tariffs.
I believe the tariff on copper we're
going to make it 50%. We'll be
announcing something very soon on
pharmaceuticals.
Uh we're going to give people about a
year, a year and a half to come in and
after that they're going to be tariffed.
If they have to bring the
pharmaceuticals into the country, the
drugs and other things into the country,
they're going to be tariffed at a very,
very high rate, like 200%.
So here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump announcing a
higher than expected 50% tariff on
imports of copper. Joining us now out of
London, Bloomberg's Brenda Murray.
Brenda, welcome to the program. Let's
just start with strategy. What is the
strategy here?
Well, the president sounds pretty
frustrated that he's not getting the
trade agreements uh by today, the the
previous deadline uh to do so. He's
negotiating with uh several major US
trading partners and and really none of
them have come to the table and signed
on the dotted line. So, what we're
seeing the president do is take another
track with these sectoral these 232
tariffs. uh copper and pharmaceuticals
were the ones that he announced uh
yesterday and and both of those have a
have their own strategic uh role. Number
one uh that the president is reminding
trading partners that he has this other
authority this sectoral authority uh to
put to put tariffs not just on the raw
material of copper but the derivative
products of copper
consumer goods that are made with
copper. So so it's it's just an
alternative tool that he can use. The
other issue with the pharmaceuticals is
he's in the middle of discussing uh the
the a trade agreement with India and
Europe and the European Union at the
moment and and they are big drug
exporters to the US. So part of this is
to is to is to turn up the turn up the
dial uh turn up the heat on these two uh
these two uh economies so that they so
he can get some of these deals over the
finish line.
Brendan, on Wall Street, a lot of
investors don't see these threats as
credible. They don't believe the
president will follow through. When you
sit there in London and hear from trade
partners negotiating with the White
House, do they believe the president
will actually follow through on August
1st?
I think there's a bit of uh growing
understanding that this is the this is
the game that uh Donald Trump plays that
he that he threatens uh threatens the
worst and you know, if you wind up
somewhere beneath that, then you feel
like you've got a good deal. Just look
at these reciprocal tariffs. He's
threatening 50% on the European Union.
they're probably going to come in
somewhere uh around the base of 10. So,
and they're they're going to, you know,
by all accounts that we have uh our
reporting in Brussels, they're going to
they're going to accept a 10% tariff on
all European exports to the US and
they're going to and they're going to uh
they're going to have to just accept
that. So, I think it's basically at this
stage a question of pain tolerance. How
much can the can can our can the US
trading partners take? and and President
Trump is saying if I can't do it with
these these broad reciprocal tariffs
then I'll then I'm going to do it with
this patchwork of of sectoral ones.
Brenda Murray out of London. Brenda,
thank you sir. Leading our trade
coverage out of the city of London
joining us now to talk about trade more
broadly. Scott Elitzkum of the Ko
Institute joins us now for more. Scott,
let's just pick up on this 50% copper
tariff. We've got some great mines,
copper mines here in the United States
in Utah, in Arizona. We've also got a
massive deposit at resolution and we
could have some real big production in
this country, but it has nothing to do
with getting prices up and everything to
do with regulation. If they go forward
with this 50% tariff on copper, what
would happen to the economy?
Well, in the in the short term, given
that about half of all of our import our
all of our copper consumed in the United
States imported, we should expect much
higher prices uh and then uh downstream
harms for companies that consume copper,
whether it is in manufacturing or
construction, utilities and the rest. Um
I mean, if you look at the steel and
aluminum tariffs from 2018, 2019, that's
exactly the playbook. you get a little
boost in the upstream sector and a lot
of pain in in the downstream sector.
Like you said though, uh the big problem
in mining and refining and copper and
the rest is uh regulation. It's not uh
the inability to produce. It's not
foreign import competition. So, it's
hard to see how these tariffs do
anything much other than impose pain for
for consuming companies. Scott, when you
look what the president is looking to do
with copper at 50%, do you expect
carveouts?
Well, if this were 2018, 2019, I would
say yes. Um, the playbook for steel and
aluminum back then was substantial
carveouts for entire countries for
specific products. This time around, I
wouldn't expect that. Uh, look, steel
and aluminum are now blanket tariffs at
that rate. very few carveouts as Brendan
just mentioned a significant expansion
to downstream derivatives. You know, now
about half of all imports covered by the
232s for steel and aluminum are
derivatives. They're downstream
products. And so, uh I for for
individuals hoping for big carveouts, I
I'm not optimistic.
But doesn't this go against what the
president wants to do in terms of a
revamp to the US manufacturing base?
Isn't this going to make it so much
harder, much more expensive? Again, not
to sound like a broken record, but you
could say the exact same thing about
steel and aluminum. Look, when you apply
high tariffs on upstream inputs, you can
help upstream industries, you're going
to harm a lot more production, output,
jobs, investment in the downstream
industries. Same thing's going to go for
copper. If I were applying a reasonable
approach to US trade policy, I would say
uh it doesn't make sense to do this if
you're trying to boost manufacturing,
particularly advanced manufacturing.
But, you know, I'm I'm not in charge
over there these days, and it does seem
they're willing to take that that
downstream pain for these upstream
production gains.
Scott, to John's point earlier, a lot of
people and trading partners are taking
this as a negotiating tactic and really
taking it in stride, not necessarily
viewing it as an absolute or the path of
travel. Why do you say that the tariff
wars are just starting? Why does this
indicate to you that things are heating
up rather than winding down?
Well, my base case is that the president
really likes tariffs and Congress has
given him a wide range of laws to
implement his tariff plans. And whether
it is the section 232s or the
international emergency economic powers
act, which gives you the fentanel
tariffs and the reciprocal tariffs,
remember we still have section 301 out
there for the China tariffs and those
ship building fees. and the president
seems intent to use all of these laws to
implement his tariff plans. Um, I do
agree that there is a lot of bluster
when it comes to things like 200%
pharmaceutical tariffs, but I also think
it's a given at this point or it should
be at least that we are in for a much
higher US tariff regime um through all
of these different laws. historically
high tariff levels in the United States
of between 15 and 20% on average until
Congress changes those laws or maybe the
courts act, which really doesn't seem
likely outside of AIPA.
So, just putting this all together,
Scott, it sounds like you think the
markets and trading partners are overly
complacent when they're looking through
this in a way that's very different to
April 2nd.
Yeah, I do. Well, um I think that
there's uh too much optimism that we're
going to see taco Trump and all of this,
but we always need to remember uh the
United States is a massive and dynamic
$30 trillion economy that depends mostly
on services and has a lot of tailwinds
with AI deregulation, some on the tax
front with the new full expensing
provisions that just got implemented.
So, we could do a lot of damage and
still uh have a decent economy. You
know, the way I describe it is I can cut
off my pinky and and not die. It doesn't
mean that cutting off my pinky is a good
idea. Uh but it doesn't mean we're in
for, you know, a catastrophic economic
consequence.
Don't do that, Scott. It's got to want
to see you again with all five. Okay.
Scott Lint there at the KO Institute.
Scott, thank you, sir. There's some
natural tension between two goals.
national security goals for primary
materials like say steel and boosting
production downstream, boosting
manufacturing and there's some obvious
tension between those two issues right
now.
There's tension between those two issues
and there's tension between the desire
to put tariffs on everything so you can
get revenue that can offset some of the
deficit increases. So you have this idea
of what you want to generate on some
sort of production basis and what you
want to generate in terms of revenues
that will help Washington DC
splitting the global copper market in
two at the moment. Coming up on the
program, Terry Weisman of McQuary with
President Donald Trump defending King
Dollar. Plus, Yahhatra Arnand with your
morning movers as Meta makes a major
investment in eyewear.
[Music]
The market moves are pretty tame at the
moment. Positive by a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500 after dropping yesterday by a
similar amount. Some tension between
what the president's saying and what the
market is hearing. The president is
saying no extensions beyond August 1.
The market's just hearing August 1 is
just the new July 9th. And we'll move
on. Equities beyond the S&P 500 on the
NASDAQ up by about a tenth on the
Russell up by about a tenth. In the bond
market, 2-year, 10 year, 30-year sit on
that 10-year maturity. Yields higher for
five consecutive sessions into today.
Yields just about unchanged this morning
at 440. Later on this afternoon, some
supply
$39 billion of 10-year notes. And that
comes ahead of tomorrow's $22 billion of
30-year notes at a time where even
yesterday's three-year note auction
didn't go swimmingly. So it raises the
question of how high the bar is for some
of those foreign buyers and non-bank
buyers to come in and say we like that
stuff when people are calling it a risk
asset
and not a great time for it. I talked
about that tension at the moment the
tension in the bond market worldwide in
the UK last week in Japan over the last
few days state side just about unchanged
in treasuries at the moment with 3 hours
until the opening bell your cash open
just around the corner with your morning
movers. Here's Yahara Arnard. Hey yhara.
Hi John. We start with the maker of
Raybands, Esler Exxotica. It's up 5.8%
in the Paris trade on our reporting that
Meta Platforms is taking their
partnership to the next level as the
tech giant pushes deeper into the smart
glasses market. We're reporting that
Meta took a nearly 3% stake in a deal
worth about $3.5 billion. But these two
companies have been working together for
years and already have smart glasses on
the market that can give you things like
realtime stock updates which I think
could be very useful for these segments.
But anyway, moving on to pharma. We have
Merc and Verona. The FT is reporting
that Merc is close to buying Verona
Pharma, which makes respiratory drugs.
As a result, Verona Pharma is up nearly
20%. The report says the deal would
value Verona at about $10 billion and an
announcement could be made as soon as
today. And we end with the power firm
AES. It shares are up nearly 15% now in
the pre-market on our reporting that it
is exploring a potential sale and
infrastructure giants like Brookfield
and Black Rockck are said to be
interested. That's because its shares
have lost about half their value in the
past 2 years. But this is a company
right in the center of the AIdriven
energy demand frenzy already supplying
power to the likes of Microsoft and
Amazon. So it is ripe for a takeover.
John
Yhierra thank you. Just to close the
loop on that Merc Verona story that deal
is confirmed transaction value of about
$10 billion mer to buy Verona fararma.
The deal expected to close in the fourth
quarter that just crossed just seconds
ago. That's the latest on M&A on our
radar this morning. President Trump said
to announce new developments on trade.
The president saying the White House
will release updates on at least seven
countries this morning followed by more
this afternoon.
So he says more letters are coming out.
He also was talking about the fact that
tariffs will start being paid on August
1st. And he continued to say there's
been no change to the state. There will
be no change. In other words, all money
will be due payable starting this date.
No extensions will be granted. And the
reason why the market is almost
shrugging this off is because the
president also said in all those letters
he sent out that these tariffs can be
may be modified upward or downward
depending on your relationship with our
country. So which one is it? Which is
why it feels like these deadlines are
just open for debate.
Which raises the question of how much
the markets and even the sort of sanguin
approach that trading partners are
taking to some of these tariffs is
giving a green light to President Trump
to go even harder, to go even more
extreme, to have even more sensational
headlines. And I do wonder at what point
we're working ourselves up into sort of
a perilous situation where people are
taunting him to take it even further
because right now people aren't buying
it. It just is an interesting dynamic at
a time where even trading partners are
like we got a letter. Oo big deal.
Remember in the news conference when he
was asked about taco.
Yeah.
A lot of bulls heard that and said don't
do that. Don't ask him about taco.
You're just pushing him. That's the
feeling a lot of people have.
And that's kind of what you see. I mean
yesterday people were talking about okay
we have a sense of what the range is of
what tariffs might look like and then
50% on copper and it's this question of
okay how high is the ceiling at this
point 200% potentially coming down the
pike because trading partners are not
coming to the table in the way that
President Trump wants you just wonder at
what point he presses the button at what
point there is a there is a repeat of
some sort of April 2nd moment just
despite those types of rumors
and mentioned this earlier in the week
the words I think of Lisanne Saunders
when she said maybe it's not a Trump put
anymore Perhaps it's a Trump call. And
with stocks very close to alltime highs,
certainly in the minds of many, the
president feels emboldened going into
this trade story through the next few
weeks. Take a listen to this. The
president pushing forward with a 50%
tariff on imports of copper into the
United States. The announcement sending
copper prices rolling over and injecting
fresh uncertainties into global trade.
And we're seeing right now the price of
copper traded in the US, trading at its
highest level relative to that traded in
Europe ever. that premium continues to
widen. Why? It's not necessarily because
people are believing these. It's that
all producers and all consumers of that
are just frontloading all purchases. And
you have to believe that's what's
happening across the board. We got two
more months. All right, let's bring it
in. Let's bring it in. So, how much are
we not going to see the pricing
increases passed along for quite a while
before we get a sense of exactly when
those imports are going to be taxed in
the way that they currently are being
talked about? If you're interested in
copper production in the United States,
Freeport and Rio have some great minds
in this country in Utah and Arizona. If
you're interested in why we haven't been
able to advance it, boost it even
further, just Google resolution copper
and see how long that's been tied up in
courts, a joint effort between Rio and
BHP. We could have massive production in
this country. It's not about higher
prices stimulating supply. That's not
going to be the story here. If you want
to boost production in America, you've
got to do something about regulation and
fast. This is the reason why people are
getting increasingly bullish. It's the
regulatory story and the deregulatory
push that people haven't accounted for
that they see as more realistic than
some of these tariff numbers. 50% 200%
145% 30% that seem to be funible on a
day-to-day basis.
Let's turn to the US consumer just
briefly. The latest on Amazon seeing a
14% drop in sales for the first hours of
Prime Day compared to last year after
extending the event to 4 days long. a
number of sellers opting to sit out this
year's event in the wake of the
president's tariffs.
Is this because they are concerned about
shopping? Is this because the deals
they're being offered aren't as good as
they have been in the past because a lot
of companies don't want to discount
their goods ahead of said tariffs. It's
an interesting moment. It's also a 4-day
Prime Day, so we might not be getting a
real uh sort of day-to-day comp in the
same way that the previous two-day uh
events have been held. But it really
does raise a question, how good are the
deals? because I've looked and they're
not that great right now.
How much pre-tariff in inventory is left
of some of these retailers? I don't
know.
How much do they want to move that
inventory if potentially that is their
last chance to get margins that actually
make sense for them?
We'll have more on this story a little
bit later. Let's turn to foreign
exchange. President Trump saying he's
prepared to punish countries that
challenge the reserve currency status of
the US dollar.
If we lost the uh the world standard
dollar, that would be like losing a war.
a major world war, we would not be the
same country any longer. You ever hear
the expression, dollar is king, the
dollar is king. We're going to keep it
that way.
Joining us now to discuss, Terry Weisman
of McQuary. Terry, good morning.
Good morning, John.
Is the dollar still king?
No, the dollar is not still king. Uh
there's plenty of indications out there
that there is darization taking place.
It's happening slowly and I think that's
why maybe some traders don't pay too
much attention to it or try to be in
denial effectively if it's not staring
you in the face and it's a slow drip.
Why talk about it? But the slow drip
continues. The uh reserve allocators are
allocating less of their balances to the
dollar. Uh we're seeing uh banks in
China for example that lend money to
some of their emerging market uh clients
asking them to borrow in remnants. The
Federal Reserve did a study about this.
Um we are seeing clearly a movement away
from the dollar by private investors and
semi-official uh investors including
pension funds right they want to
effectively diversify I think these are
all aspects of a dolization that's
taking place slowly I think the ideology
of this the origin of this is the view
that uh first of all the US is
disengaging from the rest of the world
and the breton Brettonwoods 2
arrangement implicit as it may be it no
longer applies as strongly as it did
prior to uh this administ ministration
and of course there's plenty of policy
uncertainty. Uh the idea that the uh US
is exceptional because we have something
called uh ordered liberty I think is
breaking down. We may have managed chaos
uh but we certainly don't have ordered
liberty anymore and I think that's an
aspect of the ddollarization story as
well or at least the willingness on the
part of many investors to look at the
dollar differently and in a different
light.
I think you just spoke about the dollar
for the best part of two or three
minutes and didn't mention rates once.
How divorc is this story from rate
differentials? It's it's never going to
be completely uh separated from rate
differentials, but I suspect that the
you know, you have to separate the
cyclical aspect of wanting to hold a
dollar and the ratebased reasons for
wanting to hold a dollar from the
structural story. And it may be the case
that if the and it may not matter, of
course, because the Fed may be cutting
rates, in which case it would give a
kick to the ddollarization story, to the
lack of willingness to hold dollars. So
we may get an amplification from the
rate story in the next few months of of
of the willingness on the part of
investors to ddollarize or or move away
from the dollar. Uh but if the Fed were
raising rates, yeah, to some extent it
would be important in in in in
preserving the value of the dollar, but
it's not going to stand in the way of
that structural long-term trend.
Not to get too textualist, but what does
ddollarization mean? Does it mean not
transacting in dollars? Does it mean
hedging dollar risk, which is what a lot
of people say is actually happening?
Yeah, it's it's more than one thing. In
in fact, I'd say it's maybe up to five
things. Uh when you look at what the
bank for international settlements does,
when they look at the use of the dollar,
they they look at it against, you know,
on five dimensions. They look at how
much financing is taking place in
dollars around the world by
international borrowers, crossber
borrowers. They look at how much of
international trade is denominated in
dollars, is invoiced in dollars. They
look at reserve managers, how much are
they holding in dollars as a percentage
of their reserves. So, and there's
probably about two or three other uh
qualifications or dimensions by which
they look at that. Uh most of them have
again again been doing this slow drip
for the last few years, right? There's
been a somewhat slow decline. Uh and I
suspect that uh we're going to have
other central banks around the world
actually want to uh have uh more
prominent use of their of their
currencies. So, this might amplify the
story too, right? We have Christine
Lagard at the ECB saying that she wants
to give more prominence to the euro in
international transactions in global
trade. So, and she sees her window of
opportunity just at a time when the US
is disengaging. So, you might have not
just a a push from this administration,
but you may have a pull from other
central banks and I think what the
bricks are saying is part of that pull
as well. Is this story overplayed given
the fact that the Euro region isn't
exactly a bastion of political calmness
or sort of fiscal order right now?
Yeah. So it it depends on this whole
story of European integration I suppose
right if the if if Europe can start to
to begin to look a little bit more like
the US did say a few years ago uh where
they are issuing bonds jointly where
they are promulgating regulation jointly
and uniformly and coherently where they
adopt a common foreign policy. I mean
all of the things that would might make
the European Union look more like what
we idealize the US to be uh will help I
believe the internationalization of the
euro.
What will reverse this trend?
Well, I I mean it let's go back to the
origins of of the problem, right? If you
believe that policy uncertainty emitting
from the US is one of the reasons. Well,
we have to have a reversal of policy
uncertainty. We have to move away from
managed chaos maybe back to order
liberty.
You actually need to see real trade
deals. Well, I well, I don't think so.
Actually, I think if if all of this uh
tariff situation were to go away, and I
don't think it will because we're going
to see another round of strategic
tariffs. There's other reasons why
there's policy uncertainty emanating
from the US, right? Uh are we going to
get our fiscal house in order for one
thing? Are we going to see the kind of
fiscal tension, social tensions rather,
that we have seen in the last few years?
I mean, I think all these things play a
role into how foreign investors perceive
the US.
And what about who's next to lead the
Fed? Do you have any thoughts on the
both those Kevins and what their
trajectory could mean for the dollar?
Well, I will say this. I I I don't want
to to inone on on who I think might be
the next chairman. I will say this.
We're going to get some short-term
indications potentially as as as soon as
today because we're going to see those
minutes and if there are only two uh and
and who will remain unnamed or I'll name
them. It's Michelle Bowman and Chris
Waller who are advocating for for for
for lower rates. um then you know they
are going to clearly be in the running
uh for next for next year. But if we see
the uh cohort of uh of Fed officials uh
who are demanding a rate cut start to
broaden a little bit well we might be
able to put other people into the mix
politically. I think that makes sense.
Terry Wisman of McQuary. Terry, thank
you. Lots to think about. Let's keep an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie
Burton. Hey Lizzie.
Hey John. The EU is nearing a trade deal
with the US. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, the preliminary agreement
would include carveouts for commercial
aircrafts like Airbus and for car makers
like BMW and Mercedes-Benz. The EU has
until August 1st to clinch a preliminary
trade deal. And the Supreme Court gave
President Trump approval to cut the size
of the federal government. The decision
lifted a court order that had blocked
federal departments and agencies from
slashing their workforces. A coalition
of federal employees, nonprofits, and
local governments said the decision
quote dealt a serious blow to our
democracy. And Meta bought a minority
stake in the world's largest eyewear
manufacturer, Eselor Luxotic. Sources
tell us here at Bloomberg that it bought
just under 3% or around $3.5 billion
worth of the Rayban maker. The move
signals Meta's commitment to the fast
growing smart glasses industry. And
that's going to be my brief. John,
Lizzy, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Lizzie in the next hour in about 30
minutes. Up next on a program calling
for Pal's resignation.
He should resign immediately. We should
get somebody in there that's going to
lower interest rates. I think he's
terrible. I think look, we're paying I
call him too late. He's always late, but
he wasn't late with Biden before the
election.
Up next on the program, Andrew Sheets of
Morgan Stanley live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Equities positive here by just a tenth
of 1% on the S&P 500 under surveillance
this morning. calling for Pal's
resignation.
He should resign immediately. We should
get somebody in there that's going to
lower interest rates.
Do you want congressional
Why don't you go for his resignation?
Do you want congressional Republicans to
investigate and pursue
with me? I think he's terrible. I think
look, we're paying I call him too late.
He's always late. But he wasn't late
with Biden before the election. He was
cutting him like crazy. It didn't help
too much, did it?
It's the latest this morning. President
Donald Trump calling for Fed Chair Jal's
immediate resignation. The race to
replace him said to be narrowing down to
NEC director Kevin Hasset and the former
Fed Governor Kevin Walsh. The Wall
Street Journal reporting Hasset met with
Trump at least twice in June to discuss
the role. Joining us now to discuss that
and global markets, Andrew Sheets of
Morgan Stanley joins us now for more.
Andrew, good morning. You're the lucky
one. You get this question. Okay, here's
the menu. On the menu, equities, the
long bond. Lisa wants to talk about
that. The US dollar. What would happen
if Kevin Hass got the nomination from
President Donald Trump?
Well, thanks. Good morning. I think it's
it's great to be here and look, it's
hard to speculate on any specific, you
know, nominee or action. But I think if
what we're talking about is the
administration looking for a Fed that
will run more dovish policy, all else
equal, this is, I think, consistent with
a weaker dollar. This is consistent with
a steeper yield curve and higher term
premiums. And, you know, for equities,
equities might take that initially more
positively. But I do think the key story
here, and I think we're already seeing
this, we're already seeing this in the
weaker dollar. we're already seeing this
in a steeper yield curve is I think the
market is already injecting more risk
premium into certain US assets given
longer term uncertainty over Fed policy
and also longerterm uncertainty over the
US fiscal path which just got more
complicated with the passage of the
latest budget bill.
Lisa talked about this yesterday this
dynamic and I think you're dead on. The
president is telling you exactly what he
wants. He wants a lot of issuance at the
front end of the curve and he wants the
Federal Reserve to drop interest rates.
Essentially, this is a backdoor
monetization of the fiscal deficit
because if you end up lowering rates to
zero and then issuing at the front end,
well, you know, why not? At the same
time, that could potentially boost
inflation. Why are you bullish on long
duration credit given that potential
backdrop?
Sure. So, well, I think credit is the
other side of this story. This large
public sector deficit that we see, you
know, 8% of GD 7% of GDP, 8% of GDP.
Well, it's a it's a private sector
surplus. You know, the household balance
sheet, the household net asset position
is very good. The corporate balance
sheets are in very are in very good
shape, right? One of the reasons why
that deficit is so large is we've cut
corporate taxes, which is good for that
corporate balance sheet, good for those
corporate cash flows. So, I do think
investors could say, look, on the
corporate side, you have more
flexibility about where you're going to
issue. You've got attractive yields.
You've got, you know, long duration IG
in the US at 6%. That's, you know, a
real that's that's probably, you know,
400 basis points over inflation. Four
and you know, three and a half% over
inflation. That's an attractive real
rate of return in a world where I'm less
certain maybe about the long-term fiscal
trajectory of the US, maybe a little bit
less certain about the issuance pattern
and corporates are a good place to hide
out.
Let's put corporates aside and just do a
thought exercise. If the Fed were to do
that, if essentially there would be a
backdoor monetization of the fiscal
deficit, what would that do to inflation
given that it would probably weaken the
dollar that much further and this is not
an insulated economy the way that some
people are aiming to make it? Well,
look, I mean, if if the if the premise
is that, you know, if the scenario you
you we're talking about here is that the
Fed's going to fundamentally run lower
interest rate policy, easier policy than
than one thinks it theoretically should,
that probably should absolutely mean
higher inflation all else equal. And not
only that, it should mean higher risk
premium above that level of expected
inflation. So, it's it's a double whammy
there. And I do think that that's
consistent with a steeper curve. You
know, our rate strategists do think that
the TIPS break even curve should
steepen. So we we see a steeper yield
curve in nominals. We see a steeper
break even curve. That's not necessarily
about any expectation that the Fed cuts
to zero. We think they cut to two and 58
by the by the end of 2026. But this idea
that more risk premium will get injected
into the long end of the curve, I think
is very consistent with how we're seeing
things.
Two and 58 by year end 26. When do the
cuts begin?
So we think they happen kind of around
the first quarter. So we don't think
there is any cuts this year. And this
will make it maybe a little bit awkward
with the Federal Reserve and the
administration. But what we think will
happen is that you're going to see
inflation pick back up. You're going to
see core PC at the end of this month, at
the end of August, at the end of
September start to reflect some of these
tariff effects that we know or that we
think are in the data and are coming in.
At the same time, given lower
immigration in the US, we think kind of
break even job growth in the US is a is
a, you know, an 80 uh a non-farm payroll
number below 100,000. So, we think for
the Fed, which is doing much better on
the jobs mandate than the price
stability side of its mandate, if
inflation's picking back up, if payroll
growth is in line with with steady
unemployment, they should be on hold, we
think. And that will keep them on hold
for longer and then they'll cut later
and probably more in 2026 as growth
continues to slow.
But Andrew, inflation has been coming
down even and we still have tariffs.
So why do you think it's going to pick
up in July?
So I think this is where where this
month's number is so interesting cuz you
know on our forecast on Morgan Stanley's
forecast that the June the number we got
at the end of June was the last good
number for a little while and now we
think it's starting to pick up. And I
think what's interesting is that in
those categories of inflation that we
think are should be most tariff
impacted, we've seen some of the least
impact on prices, which we think is more
of a function of a delay in the data.
It's a function of how retailers might
be selling off inventory acquired at old
better prices. Uh but we think that is
coming. And so if you add that with also
you know further tightening of the labor
market again lower immigration that also
that that's a tightening negative supply
shock in our view you know we think that
the core PCE number at the end of July
at the end of August at the end of
September that picks back up and then
we'll start to see this this is a huge
debate though but that's what we expect.
So, if the data for this Fed shows that
they cannot cut and this is going to be
potentially, as you say, awkward with
the administration, do you think there's
more of a chance Trump leans into
putting in a shadow Fed chair?
I I think that's difficult because
again, I think talking in those
hypotheticals, talking in the
theoretical always, always challenging.
I think this idea that in a scenario
where the Fed is on hold as we expect as
growth is slowing as I think the
administration has made it very clear
that it thinks monetary policy is should
be easier. I think assuming that there
would be more friction more more
criticism of the administration towards
the Fed is probably a reasonable
assumption to make. And again I think
this could raise this is maybe part of
the case why those risk premiums further
out the curve should be higher. the
market thinking well maybe this will
drive a larger shift in in the next Fed
chair's philosophy or or who is who is
picked given the greater tension he
potentially get this year
sheets of Morgan Stanley Andrew clinic
thank you sir Andrew sheets of Morgan
Stanley and the team of Morgan Stanley
Mike Gapen of course expecting no rate
cuts in 2025
which amps up potentially the tension
I'm just thinking through if you get
somebody in who really is going to cut
rates to 1% 2% % how much you see a
massive blowout in terms of long-term
rates what this does to the mortgage
market whether this completely
restructures what people demand even on
the front end because if you know that
the US government has to finance its
entirety on the front end why not charge
5% hold it all in tea bills and call it
a day
it's great to have Brammo bear back
you went missing for a little while for
a while
I mean you know honestly it's hard to
get bearish when everybody's so bearish
it doesn't ever come to fruition
but now they're bullish again
but now they're bullish again Yes.
Coming up on the program, Jean Pavan of
Black Rockck, Ed Mills of Raymond James,
Jay Bryson of Wells Fargo, the former
senior White House trade adviser,
Kellyanne Shaw. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance up next.
[Music]
It's becoming more difficult to get
extremely bullish on the index at these
levels. There's a very very decent
chance that we actually do squeeze and
we do squeeze a lot higher.
The long view is still quite optimistic.
There's broad participation in the
market, but the magnitude of the upside
is just in a handful of names.
The market has been going higher and it
will take a meaningful shock, I think,
to disrupt that. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Ann Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to all. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P just about positive
by a tenth of 1% on the benchmark state
side following two days of very mild
losses on the S&P 500. Your day ahead is
shaping up as follows. Later on this
afternoon, some Fed minutes. An
important one though, an auction at 1
p.m. Eastern time of 10-year bonds.
$39 billion of those longer duration US
treasuries at a time where there's a
real question about what this asset
looks like going forward. A real
question about US exceptionalism and
what this government would like to do
with the deficit if you're going to be
issuing more on the front end,
short-term debt, and maybe phasing out
the long-term debt at the same time that
you've got a Fed chair, potentially a
new Fed chair that wants to cut rates
significantly. Let's talk about that new
Fed chair, the Wall Street Journal, out
with the report overnight, narrowing it
down to two names, the two Kevins,
Kevin Hasset and Kevin Moore. So Kevin
Worsh was this individual that really
rose to prominence within Trump orbit
when potentially he was going to be the
Treasury Secretary and the reporting on
the Wall Street Journal that he's set to
go down at some point have this meeting
with Scott Besset. Then there's Kevin
Hasset who is the president's current
NEC director. And what's interesting
about him is the Wall Street Journal
says he already had two interviews with
the president specifically talking about
the Fed chair position. And then you can
see the change of tone even this entire
summer we've had so far from Kevin
Hassid who used to say things like it is
my job as the NEC director to make sure
that the Fed is treated independently to
basically saying Jay Powell is a
Democratic puppet and he listens to
Elizabeth Warren. His tone has changed
since his name has entered the ring.
Just because you believe the Federal
Reserve should lower interest rates, I
don't think implies that your political
bias. There is some credible arguments
out there for lower interest rates. What
will matter is perception, how the
market will perceive the nomination.
That's really important here. And as
we've said a few times on this program
over the past few weeks, the market will
get a vote long before the Senate does
when the president picks a name.
And to your point, this is a nuance
debate. This isn't about cutting rates
or not cutting rates. This is about how
much you cut rates in response to what
kind of economic data. Right now, we're
looking at a market that's pricing in
about a 65% chance of a September rate
cut. That's based in as uh baked in as
more than a 50/50 chance. You have at
least two or even three rate cuts priced
in by a lot of different shops around uh
around Wall Street. So, it raises the
question, what would be fiscally
irresponsible? What would be
irresponsible from a mon monetary policy
point of view? And that ultimately lies
with the inflation data. If inflation is
not coming down and you still see a Fed
chair that is getting jawboned into
lowering rates in a significant way,
watch out for the fireworks.
CPI July 15th, a week yesterday. Look
out for that next week alongside
earnings as well. This equity market at
the moment though taking everything in
his stride. The president promising more
tariffs and saying there will be no
extensions and equity futures are
positive by a tenth of 1% and yesterday
we were down by what a tenth of 1%.
Coming up on this hour, we'll catch up
with Jean Bavan of Black Rockck and why
he's staying overweight US equities. Ed
Mills of Raymond James as the White
House rules out further extensions. And
we'll catch up with the former senior
Trump trade adviser, Kellyanne Shaw. We
begin this out with stock steady as
investors digest President Trump's
latest trade threats. Jean Bavan of
Black Rockck writing, "We now see even
more calls to stay risk and overweight
US stocks." Jean joins us now for more.
Jean, good morning.
Good morning.
Just explain yourself, sir. Why? I mean
it boils down at the end of the day. Uh
you know huge amount of uncertainty of
course we've been uh going through that
this year. We don't think there's much
insight in say insight in saying that
anymore. Um it's really about how you
get a handle on this. And I guess our
strong conviction is that um you know
when you look over the near term we have
more certainty about the outlook than we
would have over the next few years.
That's a very unusual environment we are
in right now. And over the near term the
world cannot change very quickly. Um so
uh there'll be you know noise, there'll
be headlines, there'll be attempt to do
stuff. Uh but uh you know there are
immutable laws at play and um that's
going to shape the outcome. So we tend
to um you know over overall be you know
pro US assets uh and at the same time
like try to fade the extremes that
you're going to see coming both ways.
Actually
there is a distinction though when you
say overall be pro- US assets between
stocks and bonds. What is the
difference? The difference is that like
we like equities and bonds I think are
are more tricky in this environment. And
um so US equities we think there's like
powerful mega forces that are at play.
Uh AI is a big team. We continue to
believe in that. That supersedes I guess
the near-term trade noise and and and so
on. But when it comes to the bond uh and
fixed income but but government bonds in
particular um well we have a lot of
things at play that are for us pointing
towards higher yields uh higher
long-term yields uh term premium that
needs to reappear and so we remain on
the weight uh you know uh US treasuries
as a result.
Is this a US story or is this a global
story at a time when I believe that you
prefer European bonds even though
they're still issuing a lot of debt and
facing some of the same kinds of issues?
It is a US story uh to the extent that
um we think that's where the repricing
is the is the more uh more uh serious um
it's also um related to the greater
uncertainty we have around the Fed
outlook uh the inflation outlook uh the
debt uh the debt picture whereas in
Europe I mean you know inflation is on
the way down you can tell a very
credible story for why inflation will
surprise on the downside the ECB has
more room to cut even from here so um
that leads to uh you know um more
support for European bond bonds.
So so overweight US equities,
underweight US government bonds while
you're overweight European government
bonds maybe underweight European
equities. I'm just wondering uh if you
could give us a sense of the last time
just to sort of frame this out that you
were less exposed to US treasuries
particularly on the longer duration
versus European ones. What was the last
time you had this dynamic in Black
Rockck's portfolio? Well, we've been uh
for the last few years uh constantly uh
underweight US treasury. So, we've been
of the view that inflation was a
structural phenomenon in this
environment that rates will need to
adjust. There's a fiscal story that uh
is not the new thing of this year.
There's been a deficit story post
pandemic that um was putting pressure on
yield. So, that story has been with us
for for for a few years now. That has
been one of the strongest conviction
we've been having throughout those that
time. And there's been new layers now
added to this uh which which you know
it's unusual to say we we've been
structurally underweight US treasuries
for so long right you would have been
tactically moving around that but that's
really like a a lasting story for us
when it comes to these new layers you're
probably mentioning at least thinking
about the one big beautiful bill. Why
didn't we see more push back from the
bond market?
Well I I think um I think there is a lot
of uh structural demand still for US
Treasury. So uh uh the reason why we're
underweight is not a bigger sensational
story around uh US exceptionalism being
questioned or it's not about US
treasuries not playing their safe asset
role as much as they had in the past. So
we're not questioning the fundamental
structure of the and there is a a
there's going to be a need a structural
demand for this. So I think um I think
the markets are adjusting uh there's no
panic so far and uh but it's on drifting
up. Um I think there's room for
digesting some of the uh of the big
beautiful bill that came through and
then there's a lot of question now on
how it's going to come next. Um and so
um you know I think I think it's going
to be up yields going to go up. There's
uh it's going to be absorbed over time
towards with with higher yields.
You're saying this at a time when the
president's talking about sending out
more letters where tariff rates look
very similar to what happened on
liberation day. Do you think the he has
Trump has primed the market to basically
absorb his aggressive policies?
Well, I don't know if I don't know if
the president has primed the market in
any way, but I think uh I think we have
more conviction ourselves since April
2nd and April 9 that uh what I talked
about before the immutable laws cannot
change quickly in the near term. And one
part of it is the bond market to to
actually connect to the previous
discussion. Um the US relies on you know
foreign funding for for that debt that
we're talking about. Uh that's maybe
something that we would wish to be
different and but that's the starting
point that cannot change overnight and I
think that's going to limit uh the
maximalist approach that you can expect
to see and we've seen that on April 9th.
Um to us it was the bond market that
really like provided the discipline at
that point and uh we've seen it. So I
guess that give us more conviction that
going forward that's going to still be a
constraint um for the time being at
least.
That's an interesting thing to think
about. Do you still believe that any
potential sell off in treasuries will be
self-limiting because of that very fact?
I think so. I think I don't think the US
can uh sustain a massively higher yield
even though we are underweight and we
think yields are going going to go up.
It has to happen in a fairly gradual
manner. Uh and if there's any sign that
this is like a a very quick resetting
and we're in a world where like we have
5% 10-year yield quickly on a sustained
basis, the whole budget arithmetic that
is already pretty challenged. Uh I think
is out of the window.
So 5% is like a ceiling for you
honestly.
Well, I think I think when we if we're
sustainably in a 5% world, I think that
changes the picture quite a bit. I don't
think it's a ceiling. I mean will depend
on other uh what the growth outlook is
and and uh and so on. So I I don't think
there's a hard ceiling, but it's a
different world if we are like adjusting
to 5% sustainable.
What can I ask you then? Why is it so
different given it's only 60 basis
points away?
Why is 60 basis points so important?
I think it's so it's not so much a 60
basis points, but like this is now the
kind of the the norm 5% that we expect
to see over the next few years. That is
a different world than we at 4.4. It
might bounce back and up. Uh uh so it's
more a sustained aspect. You and the
team have been pretty consistent about
this now for a number of years at a time
when a lot of people have started to
price in rate cuts, back away, then
price them in again. You've been very
consistent about this. There are
structural reasons to expect inflation
to remain higher and you think bond
yields remain elevated. How convinced
the clients of that story right now when
you tell it? Well, I think um I well I I
find the we're very convinced about this
story and I think uh um you know there's
different views out there, but I I I
think it's less now we have less push
back than we would have had maybe uh you
know when we started to hold that view
in 2022 and so on. So I think this has
become in some ways more consensus um uh
so less push back I guess in that sense.
But yeah no I think uh I think that's um
not a easy hard sell I guess. John, I
appreciate your time as always. John
Bavand there of Black Rockck looking for
limited rate cuts from this Federal
Reserve, if any at all, in line with
what we heard from Morgan Stanley about
15 minutes ago.
With inflation really pressuring them to
hold off on those said rate cuts at a
time when Europe can potentially cut
rates more significantly. Just picking
up though on the self-limiting factor, I
think that's important. this idea of if
you start to see some sort of, you know,
freakout for lack of better words in the
long-term bond market, does that curtail
some of the behavior to limit some of
the more extreme scenarios that I was
portraying about 5 minutes ago?
No big freak out Albrammo in the bond
market right now. The tenure at the
moment about 440. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie
Burton. Hey, Lizzie.
Hey, John. President Donald Trump has
vowed to push forward with his
aggressive tariff regime, stressing his
August deadline is final, and he'll not
be adding additional extensions on
country specific levies. Instead,
hardening his tariff threats on copper
and pharmaceuticals. And investigations
are underway in the deadly Texas flash
flood. They're looking into when weather
forecasters advise local officials about
flooding and what those officials did to
spread the message to the thousands in
the area. The floods killed over 100
people and 161 remain missing. And a
leadership shakeup at Apple. COO Jeff
Williams is retiring from his post later
this year with plans to continue to
oversee the design team and manage
health initiatives. 30-year Apple
veteran Sabi Khn will replace Williams
as COO. And that should be my brief.
John
Lizzy, thank you. More from Lizzie in
about 30 minutes time. That stock is not
in a good place. Apple still down on the
year by 16%. Up next on the program, no
extensions.
What incentives do countries have to
negotiate? It seems that deadline keeps
moving.
We didn't move. It was always been
August 1st. August 1st they pay.
Up next, Ed Mills of Raymond James live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Equity
futures positive by 210 of 1%. This
market's getting comfortable. Investors
getting comfortable with all these
tariff threats. I mentioned Bank of
America. dangerous to underestimate
corporate America. Steve chevron over at
Federated the market will get
comfortable with new levels and
Goldman's David Cen. We expect the
digestion of tariffs to be a gradual
process. We are looking through the risk
going into August 1. Under surveillance
this morning, no extensions.
What incentives do countries have to
negotiate? It seems that deadline keeps
moving.
We didn't move. No, no, it's always been
August 1st. August 1st, they pay and
everybody pays. Everybody has to pay and
the incentive is that they have the
right to deal in the United States. If
they don't want to, they don't have to
pay and they don't have to deal here.
But if they want to uh buy and make a
lot of money and sell in the United
States, they have to do that.
It's the latest this morning. President
Donald Trump vowing not to extend his
trade deadline beyond August 1. The
president saying he plans to release
trade updates for at least seven
countries later on this morning.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more. Do we know who the seven are,
Tyler?
Yeah. Hey, John. No, not at the moment.
Though we have gotten some indications
on which countries could be gearing up
to get a letter. On one hand, we know
that those countries that President
Trump has grown frustrated with were
prioritized for letters like how we saw
Japan and South Korea get letters the
other day. Perhaps that could indicate
that some of those other uh trading
partners like India for example that
President Trump keeps uh highlighting
could be in the mix. But he did give us
at least one really firm answer, which
is that the European Union could be
getting a letter in the coming days.
That's considered to be kind of
surprising since the European Union has
been making progress towards a deal with
People Familiar telling Bloomberg News
that they are nearing an technical
agreement in principle with negotiators
really focusing on getting carveouts
when it comes to the sector specific
tariffs. And that is why this new threat
particularly around pharmaceuticals and
copper is only going to complicate these
negotiations for our trading partners
going forward here. Because while we
knew that the administration had
launched these section 232
investigations on the basis of national
security concerns, the original intent
was that they weren't supposed to be
negotiated. They were supposed to have
that more durable basis here for the
administration. But now they've really
come into the conversation in a
meaningful way. John, when it comes to
those copper specific tariffs in
particular, while we didn't know the
date or the rate, 50% is considered to
be of course pretty high. While it is in
line with the steel and aluminum
tariffs, it is higher than the original
baseline we were expecting for sector
specific tariffs at 25% which is only
going to make those carveouts that much
more important.
Tyler, thank you. Tyler Kendall down in
Washington with us here in New York, Ed
Mills of Raymond James. Ed, good
morning.
Morning.
It is July 9th and we have limited
clarity. How much additional clarity
will we have on August 1?
Um, we'll have more clarity. I don't
think we'll have a lot of the details. I
think the whole goal this year is to get
as manyus signed as possible because I
think what President Trump really wants
to do is say, I got a trade deal with
112 countries. They're going to buy
trillions of dollars worth of goods,
even more trillions of dollars worth of
market access, and we're going to work
out all the details later. Um, and I
think that one of the good things about
having this little extra time is what
you need to do to get one of those is
not all that complex. Um, if you can
work it out later, that's fine. And and
that's where I think the market is okay.
As long as we have this extra time, sign
the deal. And when you look at the
letters that are going out, the new
rates are not that much worse or
sometimes even a little bit better than
April 2nd. So, we're okay.
The new rates are basically April 2nd.
It's basically liberation day part two.
But in this letter, Trump does say that
perhaps you could consider an adjustment
to this letter if you decide to come to
the table. We may reconsider. But then
yesterday he said, "It's August 1st.
These are the rates. We're not going to
be adjusting." Which Trump do you
believe?
Uh the next Trump I mean it's like kind
of it's like I mean there is the only
constant here is change. I mean so I
don't necessarily think that August 1st
is necessarily a hard-rand.
I do think that there is going to be
three buckets here. Bucket number one,
new revenue. We have a huge new tax bill
that is costing trillions of dollars,
the most expensive bill in the history
of the country. Uh he needs that
revenue. Bucket number two, protect
national security. Those are the
sectoral tariffs. If we are at war with
China, what do we need to make here in
the United States? And bucket number
three has always been can we use the
force of the US economy to force policy
change elsewhere? That piece is always
going to be the hardest part. And that's
what all these negotiations are about.
Amory,
so who gets a deal today or tomorrow?
I'm thinking of three in particular.
Japan was supposed to, but they got the
same second rate. India, I was getting
tons of text messages yesterday saying
it was imminent. I still see no language
on it. And the European Union, which
seems to capitulate on a 10% across the
board tariff.
Yeah, I think the most likely is India,
then Japan, and I think the least likely
is the EU. I think one of the issues
with the EU is the United States is
asking Europe to make a decision. Are
you with the United States or are you
with China? And there are competing
interests. You look at certain countries
and they're like absolutely the United
States. A lot of that economy is tied to
us. Others have more exports going into
China because they are a block with
disperate interest. I think that's going
to be very hard to get anything on the
tape by April 1st. But I do think that
Japan, India, Australia, a large part of
the GDP globally can get a deal by
August 1st.
Don't want to get into psychoanalysis
here. What is it though about letters?
Because it's always a letter. Why does
everybody get a letter? And what is the
importance of this versus just a verbal
warning, maybe a presidential tweet, you
know, what is it about a physical letter
getting sent out that it has some import
for President Trump?
Yeah, I think it shows action. I think
it shows that kind of the ability to
kind of flesh it out a little bit more.
Um, you know, these letters, if you read
them, they're basically the same and
they are very clearly dictated exactly
by him. uh and probably edited by him
because it's like you see Trump's voice
in these letters. I do think that there
has been a concern by President Trump
that uh the taco trade is out there and
that he always caves. So he wants to
show uh and project this strength that
if you don't come to the table, this is
what you uh get. I think the biggest
questions from the you know social media
posts in these letters are some of the
details. What does it mean that you'll
have higher tariffs if there's trans
shshipment? We do not have a structure
in place to deal with kind of how that
country of origin would be different.
That's why I think the details here are
going to take a long time. But he wants
to say here are the general parameters.
This is what I want. You come to the
table. You tell me what you're going to
give me.
I'm taking notes, parenting uh notes
because I plan on sending letters to the
household and we do have a complaint box
already. I am wondering going forward
whether the reaction or non-reaction
that we're seeing in markets is sort of
emboldening him to send some more
letters and to raise those rates up even
higher.
Yeah, I think that's one of the big
questions from clients yesterday at
Raymond James is that um after April
2nd, what got him to pause these on
April 9th was the market reaction. And
we've had these conversations so many
times. What caused Congress in the past
to raise the debt limit is the market
reaction. And so are you in this
dangerous place that if there is no
market reaction then you can get even
more aggressive and at what point is a
mistake made? I don't think we're close
to that. But I do think there's always a
threat that if you need the market to
correct and you don't get it then you
get more bold. The biggest change I've
seen so far in this market is early on
in administrations they mostly focus on
process. Later on they focus on
outcomes. Right now, this is a market
that is saying, "All right, the process
might be changing, but the outcome is
not likely to change." The only way we
get a market reaction if they think the
outcome is actually going to materially
worse than what they actually expected.
What would a mistake be? How do you
characterize that?
Yeah, I think a mistake would be
actually going to 50% with the EU and
that sticking on for a period of time.
When I was in Europe two weeks ago
speaking with investors at Raymond
James, uh there is a real concern about
the weakness of the dollar and exports
getting more expensive coming from
Europe into the United States. Um and
then you have tariffs on top of that
that could be a recession. Um does that
kind of have unintended consequences? We
talk about, you know, looking at yields
here in the United States. We saw after
April 2nd, the 30-year go above 5%. Does
the 30-year kind of and the 10-year
start spiking as we start issuing debt
over the next couple months to refill
the Treasury General account and does he
put pressure on the Fed to bail that out
and then there is a bond market
reaction? Uh those are the things that I
think are the biggest debates for the
second half of this year is kind of the
rate path.
That last point, the Federal Reserve,
what are you telling clients about the
Fed race?
So, I think that I I know that there's
news out this morning that Hassert and
Wars are considered to be the front
runners. I'd put Waller and Bessant into
that camp as well. I think Donald Trump
loves people to compete for the job.
What I'm watching to see is does Michael
Bar uh step down as one of the Fed
governors now that he's no longer by
sheer for supervision. If he does,
Hassert or War is probably going to get
that seat. Cougler, another governor,
her term expires in January. That is
probably the second seat. And then all
four compete to see who can be the Fed
cheer come the May expiration of Powell
seat and who is going to be the most
dovish who's going to be uh the most
supportive of his agenda gets it. It's a
perfect scenario for Trump to have
another game of apprentice but this time
for Feder
or Game of Thrones equally as brutal.
That situation some names are more
credible than others. Let's put it that
way.
Yeah. Or Bachelor. I mean who gets a
rose, right? I mean we could put this on
a whole host of different uh shows. This
does raise a question though about how
much the market's going to be voting. To
your point, you know, who they're going
to vote off the island, uh, Love Island,
maybe another one.
Yesterday, when the president was once
again saying that Jay Powell is
terrible, he then looked over to Scott
Besset and said, "I like you better."
And that made me think, "Oh, maybe
Bessant is back in this race and it's
not just the Kevin.
Can you imagine these guys on Love
Island?"
I was just going to say, "This is
mentioned. I don't know where you're
going."
I mean, I mean, it just feels, you know,
like, you know, playing for the love and
you only get love if you say what I
want. And that's sort of a toxic
relationship. We watched Love Island.
Want to know more about the complaint
box? Save that for another time.
It's It's true. It comes out once a
week.
Okay. Ed Mills and Raymond James. Ed,
thank you, sir.
Appreciate it. Up next, Jay Bryson of
Wells Fargo on the health of the US
consumer. Plus, Yihara Arnand with your
morning movers. And again, a thanks to
Trump's levy on copper.
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Two days of losses on the S&P.
A small morning of gains so far. We're
positive by about 210 of 1% on the S&P
500. On the NASDAQ, we're up by.16. It
has been a snooze in the last 24 hours
in a bond market. Check this out.
10-year Treasury that maturity yields
higher for a sixth consecutive session.
The grind continues up another basis
point to 44072.
The debate at the long end of the curve
whether inflation will firm up in the
coming months and prevent this Federal
Reserve from reducing interest rates.
But for this Federal Reserve, it's not
just about credible economic argument.
It's about the politics at the moment.
The president saying we should get
somebody in there that's going to lower
interest rates. What does the former Fed
governor Kevin Walsh say? Tariffs are
not inflationary. That's the argument at
the moment if you want this seat at the
Federal Reserve.
So we have Waller, we've got potentially
Hasset, we've got Kevin Worsh, we have
Scott Bessant. Real question is how much
does the market absorb the potential for
rate cuts without freaking out? And the
freak out being 10ear yield spiking
higher. And that ultimately will be the
true test of someone who can credibly be
Fed chair, who could actually be
pleasing to the president.
A big debate ahead of a 10-year auction
later on this afternoon. $39 billion in
10-year notes. We'll come back to that
later. 2 hours away from the cash open.
Let's get you some morning movers.
Here's Yahara Alan with more. Hey yara.
Hi John. We start with Freeport Macaran.
Shares of the American mining giant are
up nearly 2% after President Trump
called for 50% tariffs on copper
imports. So obviously as the largest
copper producer in the US, Freeport
stands to benefit from this since those
tariffs will make foreign copper more
expensive. And a little fun fact for
you, the Morreny mine in my home state
of Arizona is the largest copper mine in
the US and it is operated by Freeport.
Next up, we have AES. We mentioned this
stock earlier, but worth mentioning
again because it is up nearly 14 about
14 1.5% on our reporting that it is
exploring a potential sale. And
apparently the likes of Black Rockck and
Brookfield are interested. That's
because its shares have lost about half
their value in the past 2 years. But
this is in this is a company right in
the middle of that a AI energy demand
frenzy. And it's already it's already
supplying power to the likes of
Microsoft and Amazon. And we end with
another energy company and that is Bloom
Energy rising 7.6%
after JP Morgan upgraded the stock to
overweight. It nearly doubled its price
target to $33. They're saying revenue at
the company could get a boost after Fuel
Cells qualified again for federal tax
credits under the tax and spending law.
That was not expected, but it is a big
win for Bloom. John
Yahara, thank you. More from Yhara in
the next hour. On our radar this
morning, President Trump expected to
issue more tariff letters today as he
vows not to extend his new deadline of
August 1st. The president saying he
plans to release trade updates for at
least seven countries this morning.
And how credibly will that be taken
given the fact that the market has
shrugged pretty much everything off? the
sp the prospect of ye the EU being one
of them is pretty shocking given the
fact that we thought that they were
somewhat close to some sort of deal and
it raises the question how badly are
some of these negotiations actually
going that he's uh finding the need to
really ratchet up the pressure
well the EU is just hoping to get some
sort of framework in place by today then
have the rest of the month to negotiate
this agreement the president though
yesterday saying there's no change this
date when it comes to August 1st and
there will be no change this date at the
same time his letters
leave open this possibility that if you
come to the table with something he
wants, he's willing to change the
parameters of the deal, the negotiation.
So, the market's basically saying we
think this is all open for debate at
minimum till August 1st.
We've said two things on this program.
The reason this has been somewhat
disappointing to markets, I stress
somewhat, is that July 9th today was
meant to be a clearing event. It's not
going to be going to have to wait till
August 1. And based on the threshold the
Federal Reserve set for itself, this is
going to make it harder and harder for
the Federal Reserve to cut interest
rates, which makes this race to replace
Fed Chair Jay Pal all the more
interested. And it's said to be
narrowing down to just two names now.
The NEC director Kevin Hasset and the
former Fed Governor Kevin Walsh. The
Wall Street Journal reporting that
Hasset met with Trump at least twice in
the month of June to discuss the role.
What do you think these conversations
sound like? How dumb he going to be? How
many times he going to cut? I mean
essentially what are the parameters for
President Trump to pick a favorite among
what we believe to be the four major
candidates although of course there
could be more if there is this check by
the markets and I think there is a
bigger question which is will the
administration be beholdened to a bond
market that is concerned about some sort
of monetization of the debt by issuing a
greater amount of the uh the debt in the
front end of the yield curve and then
having a Fed that lowers rates as much
as possible to reduce interest expenses.
is that's going to be a key question for
the long end and for the dollar.
What they talk about inside these
meetings is probably what Kevin Hassid
is willing to say now publicly. As these
meetings were going on towards the end
of the June, this is what he had to say
in an interview. Jay Pal is the person
who cut rates right ahead of the
election to help Kla Harris and is quote
doing whatever it is that Elizabeth
Warren wants. That is what he is saying
publicly. So, you can only imagine what
he is saying to his boss if potentially
this is the job he wants. I wouldn't
usually be first in line to defend
Senator Warren and some of her policies.
But Senator Warren's been sending
letters to Chairman Pal asking for lower
interest rates, hasn't she?
She has been. They're basically they're
on the same page. The letters I think
every I think I think I'm going to start
writing letters. I'm just going to hold
them up for surveillance. It'll be like
the surveillance letter every morning. I
just want to think we should do that.
Motivations matter, not just letters.
And how those motivations are perceived
matter a whole lot more to this market.
You can have a credible argument to
lower interest rates. We've heard it
from Neil Dutter of Renmack. I find
Governor Waller's speeches particularly
compelling. They are credible. His view,
his argument why we should look through
tariffs, look through any potential
inflation shock and insulate the labor
market. But if you believe that the
decision to cut interest rates is not
because of a credible economic argument.
It's because the president asked you to,
that's going to have a very different
outcome in financial markets. The key
question is going to be does the
inflation data allow the Federal Reserve
to cut interest rates or the labor
market if it weakens substantially or
are you going to get more jawbon about
the expense of all of the debt for the
United States. If that continues to be
one of the motivating features, watch
out for that long end.
Protecting Fed independence should make
it easier to cut.
Correct.
If you undo it, it makes it harder
because the market will start to
question a whole host of things. Okay,
we'll come back to the Fed a little bit
later. the denovives of Wedbush. He's in
focus criticizing the Tesla CEO Elon
Musk and his move to create a new
political party.
This is a time now for Musk. He needs to
choose and you can't keep having these
one step forward, two steps back. I
think there's a line in the sand that
he's now starting to cross. I believe
you've now hit a point. I think the
board's going to have to get involved.
Dan, these are not my words. They are
the words of Elon Musk pushing back and
telling Dan Ies quote to shut up on X.
My favorite part of this is actually if
you look right under uh Elon Musk's
tweet to Dan Ies, you have someone
asking Grock thoughts. Grock of course
being the generative AI chatbot from
Isn't that just like a feature of
X? This is perfect. But do you want to
know what Grock actually said? It sounds
a lot like what Elon Musk would say,
which I think is fascinating. It is.
Well, Dan's got some bold ideas, but
capping Elon's time in politics, that's
like telling a rocket not to launch.
Musk's shut up sums it up. Tesla thrives
on his cha chaos. As Grock, I'd say, let
the mad genius genius cook. I'll just
say it sounds a lot like Elon Musk.
Well, the thing is is that I is one of
the most bullish on Tesla and Elon Musk
is telling the most the biggest bull on
the street for his own company to shut
up because why? Dan continuously says
that he wants Elon Musk at the seauite
not on X talking about political
endeavors talking about starting third
parties in the United States and wants
him focused on things like autonomy
where he thinks that's why you can get
to a $500 price tag on the stock
to your point he has got a $500 price
target on Tesla. Let's turn to the
consumer. Amazon Prime Day getting off
to a slow start. Data from Momentum
Commerce showing sales falling almost
14% in the first four hours of of the
event compared to last year. Jay Bryson
of Wells Fargo writing the following.
Indicators of domestic spending
including real PCE and orders for
capital goods have softened. Jay joins
us now for more. Jay, welcome to the
program, sir. Let's go with the first
question. Do you believe the pull
forward in the previous few months is
starting to reverse? And are we starting
to see some evidence of that?
Oh yeah, John. We definitely are
starting to see some evidence of that. I
mean, you know, we're only four hours
into prime day here. We'll see how that
all how all that shakes out. But, you
know, if you look at recent spending
indicators, they have all softened here
in in the second quarter. I guess the
big question here is, is it just, you
know, a reversal of that pull forward,
something that will um snap back later
on this summer, or is this the start of
a of a real trend? Our guess is it's the
start of a of a real trend in terms of
softer consumer spending data. you know,
we're going to be looking at higher
inflation in in coming months. Uh that
will erode um purchasing power. And so
we're thinking we're looking at some
softer data, not negative consumer data,
but just soft consumer data. Um as we go
forward,
how much day are we seeing companies
that don't really want to reduce prices?
They don't want to give massive deals
ahead of potential margin compression in
the face of tariffs. At the same time,
the consumers are just buying less. So
prices staying high, but people being
less active. sort of the stagflationary
like scenario that some people have
pointed to.
Yeah, I mean we're kind of in that, you
know, that scenario right now, Lisa. Um,
you know, in terms of just there's a lot
of uncertainty out there in terms of of,
you know, the effects of of tariffs. I
mean, the good thing, I guess, from the
company standpoint is they brought a lot
of inventory in in the first quarter.
They got underneath the tariffs. They
have this inventory that they can sell
right now at lower prices. You know, the
big question is as we go forward is does
that start to reverse? And our our our
guess is you're going to start you're
going to see that in the uh the the
numbers that that are coming up the June
numbers for CPI next week. You'll see
some higher goods prices. You're
starting to see that starting to trickle
in. And so, you know, the inventories
can't last forever. Um and sooner or
later, if these price if these tariffs
do stick, you're going to have you're
going to see higher prices as you go
forward.
This is kind of an in the weeds
question, Jay, but do we have a sense of
how long the inventories are going to
last? Do you really think that we will
start to see some of that pressure in
next week's CPI report? Or could it be
that people have stockpiled so much that
we're not going to see it until much
later this year, which will keep us in
this sort of guessing game of will it or
won't it really affect inflation rates?
Yeah. So our so you know the the answer
to your question is it's kind of
unknown. Our sense here is that you are
going to start to see it in terms of
trickling in in terms of in the June
numbers that we get next week and then
we'll start to see it over the next few
months as well. I mean I think it's a
few month sort of phenomenon rather than
you know between now and the end of the
year. We think it's going to show up
between now and you know say sometime in
in the in the fourth early fourth
quarter when we see the biggest impact
of of of that reversing. Jay, what do
you think's going to have the biggest
bite on the US economy? The sectoral
tariffs or the country specific ones?
Well, I think it's I think it's more the
I think it's more the across the board
sort of rather than the sectoral ones.
You think about the sectoral ones. A lot
of those things are on steel and
aluminum, you know, things like that,
things that consumers don't buy just
directly and and so it gets passed on
through through businesses. and whether
it all continue gets passed on
completely um you know is is is a
difficult question but it's the more of
the across the board things the things
that can affect consumer prices directly
I think is probably the the bigger
effect on on the price level and and on
the economy
Jay there is always something to worry
about in my experience living here in
America for the 10th year there's always
something to worry about and the economy
turns out to be okay your experience
goes beyond my 10 years it goes back
decades to the University of Alabama
when you were assistant professor
now wrapping up your career at Wells
Fargo. There's a reason I'm doing this,
of course, because this is your last
appearance in your seat before you
retire. Sir, could you share some wisdom
with us this morning? What's your
biggest lesson of covering this economy?
What What's my I'm sorry, John. What's
my biggest What
the biggest lesson, sir? The biggest
lesson you have? Yeah, I guess the
biggest lesson I have is the US economy
is a very resilient, which I think you
just pointed out, and b it is very
flexible as well. It's always changing.
And so we always want to, you know, when
a shock comes, whether it's a pandemic
or whether it's a tariff or whatever, we
always want to look back on history to
figure out, you know, what the effects
of those potential policy changes or
those shocks were on the economy. that
can only get you so far because, you
know, again, the economy continues to
evolve. And so, history can tell us some
things, but we have to stay sharp on our
toes about how the structure of the
economy is changing and how different
policies and different shocks may affect
it.
Jay, congratulations on behalf of the
team here at Bloomberg Surveillance.
Thank you, sir, for your contributions
to this show over the years. Jay Bryson
there of Wells Fargo.
Yeah, so wonderful uh to have him on the
show and hopefully he can go back in his
new in his new seat. It is important to
say we cannot really uh understand a lot
of the policies going forward and
extrapolate them out too much. I will
say with aluminum aluminum foil I'm
looking at prices right now.
That's what you're checking out.
Yeah.
The big takeaway from Jay Bryson things
turn out to be okay and you're looking
at foil and the price of foil.
You know it's a foil hat. You know it's
on brand. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here's
your Bloomberg brief with Lizzy Burden.
Hey Lizzy.
Hey John. President Trump said he will
push forward with a 50% tariff on
imports of copper into the US. The
announcement sent copper prices plunging
in the global benchmark. Trump looks to
spur more mining and smelting in the US
and the tariff can be in place within
weeks. And Starbucks has received
several proposals from prospective
investors in its China business. Sources
telling Bloomberg the company's now in
the process of shortlisting a group of
potential investors for a next round of
bidding. In a statement, Starbucks
shared it remains committed to China and
wants to retain a meaningful stake in
the business. And Christian her has been
let go as CEO and principal of Red Bull
Racing after over 20 years with the
team. Her was the longest serving member
principal uh team principal in Formula 1
and oversaw Red Bull's rise to dominance
in recent years. His departure follows a
series of issues both on and off the
track over the past year. That should be
my brief. John
Lizzy, thank you. End of an era for Red
Bull Racing. Adrien Nui, one of the most
successful car designers of all time, if
not the most successful. He went
recently. Christian her going now. Max
could be next based on reports we're
hearing.
Yeah, that would be kind of a sea change
given that he's dominated the field to
such a degree and popularized it through
the Netflix series, etc. I wonder if
they can maintain the popularity if
you've got a changing of the guard at
the top.
Someone just messaged me. Maybe Horner
goes to Cadillac. So, maybe this isn't
all over. So, we'll see. Maybe a
Ferrari.
Maybe. We'll see.
Would you like that?
I I would like to win. That's what I'd
like to happen at Ferrari. Okay.
Okay. All right. All right.
Those wins are deep. Up next on the
program, taking game at copper and
farmer.
I believe the tariff on copper, we're
going to make it 50%. We'll be
announcing something very soon on
pharmaceuticals. They're going to be
tariffed at a very, very high rate, like
200%.
Up next, we'll catch up with the former
senior Trump trade adviser, Kellyanne
Shaw.
[Music]
The president yesterday tariffs will
start being paid on August 1, 2020. 25.
No extensions will be granted. This
market didn't even blink. Equity futures
posited by 210 of 1% this morning on the
NASDAQ up another 0.21. Under
surveillance this morning, taking game
at copper and farmer.
I believe the tariff on copper, we're
going to make it 50%. We'll be
announcing something very soon on
pharmaceuticals.
uh we're going to give people about a
year, a year and a half to come in and
after that they're going to be tariffed
if they have to bring the
pharmaceuticals into the country, the
drugs and other things into the country.
They're going to be tariffed at a very
very high rate like 200%.
Here's the latest this morning.
President Trump vowing to push forward
with copper tariffs and giving the
pharmaceutical industry a year before
slapping a potential levy of 200%.
Joining us now to discuss the former
Trump trade adviser, Kellyanne Shaw.
Kellyanian, good to see you.
Good to see I'm sure you've been up all
night. What's the advice to clients?
My advice to clients is to take the day
off, see how this plays out, and then
come back in two days and a week and see
what the tariff landscape looks like.
Because right now, this is the endgame
of a massive, massive negotiation. And
there's just as mixed substance as there
is theater. So, if you're making real
business decisions, you're best just
taking a beat and waiting it out and see
where things land. Having worked for
Trump, is this the final moment where
he's trying to extract the most
concessions from all these countries?
I I think that there is a lot of that in
this. And and what's so challenging
about watching Trump from the outside
and what makes him such an interesting
negotiator is that there's just as much
mix of substance as tactics. And so
trying to understand the forest through
the trees can be very difficult. But I
do think this is the endgame. And I
think he's trying to say, "Okay, country
X, country Y, you've given me this deal,
but are you really going to give me
more?" And and that's what he's trying
to get.
Who was the White House most focused on
right now in terms of the foreign
trading partners? So, they've talked
about these 18 countries. We've heard
anywhere from 18 to 30 important trading
partners. I think those are the ones
that the administration's really focused
on trying to land a deal with.
You think this is the endgame so that
that we're going to get some clarity on
August 1st. Is that what you're telling
clients that essentially this isn't just
a deadline that's going to be moved to
September 4th and then October 1st and
then on and on?
Well, both, right? Um, so at the same
time as we do have this August 1
deadline and the president doubled down
yesterday on True Social and said, "No,
this is a firm deadline." Um, they have
also said that if you don't like your
tariff rates six months, a year, two
years from now, you can come back and
try to lower that through negotiations.
So, I think we'll certainly see more
certainty and I'm actual actually
hopeful that we do well in advance of
August 1st because customs needs time to
adjust the HTS, give importers notice of
what those tariff rates are and that
process alone can take a couple of
weeks. I just wonder how much some of
this leverage is getting lost in the
increasingly extreme rates and the
increasingly uh extreme tactics. Does
that actually end up bearing less fruit
after using it many times? And that's
sort of the question that you see in
markets is a lot of people shrug this
off and frankly some of the rhetoric
that we're hearing from the trading
partners saying the same thing.
Well, I I I think I'm hearing different
things from trading partners anywhere
from sheer panic to blasze in terms of
some of these tariff rates that have
been announced. But but what I would say
is this is very typical of President
Trump's approach to negotiations. And I
do think that tariffs will go up. The
question for me is by how much and with
respect to what trading partner. And so,
you know, whether this is the boy who
cried wolf, I don't think so at all. I
do think that the tariff rates are going
to go up, but are they going to go up to
36% on Indonesia? Are they going to go
up to 40% on Myanmar? Maybe not. Let's
see where things land.
What I'm hearing from you is that his
tactics are actually working on the
other side of the negotiating table.
Would you say that's correct?
Yeah. Having talked to a number of
trading partners, there is a bit of
let's pick up the phone, find out what's
going on and see how we can deescalate
this happening.
Now, when he comes out and announced
something maybe for India because he
said he basically signaled that
yesterday. I had heard that this was
imminent. Is it going to be a framework
like he announced with the United
Kingdom or we get more substance and
details to it?
So, India is a bit different than some
of the other negotiations that are
happening. This is more like a broader
trade agreement. So I expect the the
deal with India to be about a subset of
issues versus these reciprocal deals I
do think will look more like frameworks
with the substance of those provisions
and the details to be negotiated moving
forward.
Just one point, one dimension of this
that I think we all find really
interesting is trans shipping.
How much progress have they actually
made so far to stop the flow of trade
going from China through other countries
and into the United States?
Well, this is an active debate in
Washington right now. What does that
word train shipment mean? Does that
really mean ships that are going from
China to a third country like Vietnam
and then to the United States? Or is it
a reference to this concept of a rule of
origin? Meaning if you've got Chinese
content in that supply chain, you're
going to be paying that 40%, that higher
tariff. And if that's the case,
Vietnam's between a rock and a hard
place, as are many of these countries,
because China does not like that idea or
that provision. So, we'll have to see
what the administration means by that
when we see the actual text. outside of
Vietnam, what are the countries you're
tracking on that issue?
Um, so the president has had the trans
shshipment issue in every single letter
that he's sent out. So Japan and Korea
have it. I think this means a lot for
Southeast Asia because so many companies
move supply chains after the original
301 tariffs and Trump 1.0. So this could
really hit them.
Kellyanne, appreciate it. It's good to
see you in person, too, here in New
York. Thank you. The former senior Trump
trade adviser, Kellyanne Shaw, on the
difficulties of making some deals right
now. Well, it sounds like what
Kellyanne's saying is that this is the
end in terms of trying to get to the
finish line, which is why you see the
president exerting all this pressure and
telling clients, take 48 hours. We're
not done yet. Take 48 hours, then come
back and and you'll see maybe a little
bit more clarity.
We'll all take the beginning of the end
and not the end of the beginning. Right.
I think that's all. Yes. I think people
would like this to be the beginning of
some more certainty because we're all
sick of saying the word uncertainty and
so we'd like to move on to another
topic.
August one, are we moving on?
No, absolutely. I thought we were moving
on on July 9th. I was hoping.
Did you actually think so?
I was hoping we'd just get a number
across the board, universal tariff. Not
that my view matters much, but a
universal tariff and then just move on.
Just move on. And pick up on what
Sevilla said over at Bank of America.
Corporations will adjust to this.
They're resilient. They'll work it out
and they'll move on too.
Two points. Companies are resilient and
they are going to move on. But as far as
the uncertainty, well, hope is not a
strategy because that seems like it's
ongoing.
And we just had an entire trade
discussion without talking about China.
That is something that that cloud is
going to overhang this administration
much of next year as well because they
only are dealing with two issues right
now. We haven't even gotten to the
purchase agreement of Trump's first
administration.
Hope is my strategy. All right.
Again, hope that's all you can have.
Faith.
I think I think you need a letter.
Your fellow human beings.
Oh, okay. You write a letter on that.
I'll write you my letter.
Up next, John Bilton of JP Morgan Asset
Management. Suchita Gadali of Forester.
Nancy Lazar of Piper Sandber. Leslie
Falconeio of UBS. Put it in the
complaint box. Right.
The hope is my strategy. You got to tell
us about that. Well, I think it's a very
good strategy.
You've got a complaint box at home and
it comes out once a month.
Once a week.
Once a week. Once my complaints, just
file it in the complaint box. We'll
discuss it Saturday morning.
And do you discuss it?
Then burn them.
Yeah. Then in the incinerator.
[Music]
It's still a moving target with the with
the tariffs. Even the trade deals that
are struck, they're still not very
detailed.
We're at really high tariff rates right
now. In our minds, the next signal
points upward.
There's still a lot of story to be told.
There's still a lot of negotiations to
go on.
Not a pretty thing to watch, but I think
the markets have figured out that uh
this is going to get resolved in the
next few months. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
90 minutes away from the open and power
state side live from New York City this
morning. Good morning to you all. The
third hour of Bloomberg Savannah starts
right now. Your scores look like this.
Equity futures on the S&P positive by
210 of 1% continuing to shake off the
trade threats from the president of the
United States. The NASDAQ 100 up by 0.2.
If we check out the bond market, the
focus is on a 10-year maturity yields
higher for a sixth consecutive session.
Your yield this morning 44152. Your day
ahead dominated by a bond auction later
on this afternoon at 1 p.m. Eastern
time,
which will really give us a sense of
just how much demand there is for that
10-year maturity at a time where there
real questions around the US fiscal
dominance as well as just this ongoing
question around the Federal Reserve
chair. And this is why it matters. We've
been talking about it extensively. If
the Fed appears pressured to lower
interest rates not based on economic
data but in order to lower interest
expenses for the United States that
could cause an exodus from the long end
and that on the margins is starting to
be the conversation.
Black Rock Jean Ban believes this bond
market is still a constraint around this
White House and their policy on trade
and there's only so much they can push
the D when it comes to tariffs because
this bond market start might start
pushing back big time.
Well, we saw that on April 9th. remember
when the bond market to the president's
words got quote yippy and they had to
reverse some of the policies when it
comes to the liberation day rates but we
just saw liberation day rates once again
from this administration and the market
pretty much shrugged it off because they
are tempting the president I think
basically saying boy who cried wolf
you're not going to go through with this
Kelly Shaw though who was a negotiator
under Trump during 1.0 you know, makes a
very good point. A lot of theaters going
on right now. What the president is
trying to do in the final negotiation is
push people to the edge. When I say
people, other trading partners and
because of that, he wants to get as many
concessions as he can. And while the
market might be shrugging it off, if you
are a prime minister in one of these
other countries, you're still second
guessing whether or not he means it or
not. So, you're picking up the phone.
I don't think Kellyanne will mind us
saying this. She came into the studio
about 15 minutes ago, walked in off mic,
and just said, "Take a day off. Grab a
beer and wait. try to get some more
clarity. 48 hours. I said, "Is 48 hours
enough?" She's like, "Maybe a week."
This is sort of the the moment at which
we're in narrative roulette zone. We're
trying to understand what the roulette
of tariffs is going to look like. We're
trying to understand the roulette of
what earnings are going to look like
when they kick off. Tomorrow we get
Delta. Next week, we get the banks and
the roulette of just what the Fed will
do at a time when they're being jawbone.
And so, we're trying to pick up on these
strains at just a time of throwing up
the cards and let's see what happens.
Equities are pretty comfortable with all
of this at the moment. Close to alltime
highs. I've been at the 210 of 1% this
morning. Mentioned this earlier on this
morning in the first hour of this
program. Mark Zuckerberg's not freaking
out about trade and tariffs. He's gone
around hiring people at $10 million a
piece. What does that tell you about
what he's focused on and what's really
driving this equity market?
It shows how much the AI trade has still
been underpinning so much of this. And
that really is at the core of this. And
yesterday we were having this
conversation where how sensitive are the
AI trades to tariffs to this idea of
these levies being put on and the answer
is right now not very because that is
the future and if that's the case you've
got price insensitive buyers when it
comes to some of the uh hyperscalers
particularly with Nvidia and some of the
other chip providers.
NASDAQ futures this morning hired by
close to 210 of 1%. And coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with John Bilton of
JP Morgan Asset Management as
uncertainty uncertainty limits investor
confidence. Suterita Gdali of Forester
on signs Amazon's prime day is
disappointing. And Nancy Lazar of Piper
Sandler as the pressure builds on Fed
share JPAL. We begin this hour with
stock steady as investors digest the
president's latest tariff plans. John
Bilton of JP Morgan Asset Management
writing, "Uncertainty around policy
impacts has crimped investor and
business confidence contributing to a
likely dip in activity in the second
half of 2025." John joins us now for
more. John, good morning.
Good morning.
How convinced are you by the slowdown in
the second half and why?
Well, I think it's we've got to look at
it economically. We've had a lot thrown
at the market. You've got investors
who've uh sort of sat back and wanted to
stay on the sidelines and especially
corporations and we're seeing that come
through. things like the jobs report. It
was okay, but it wasn't suddenly sort of
taking off. The turbochargers really
weren't kicking in at this stage. And we
think that we're going through a period
where the market is adjusting to the
data that the soft data that's come
through. And you'll see that leak into
the hard data. But make no mistake, if
we look beyond the second half, what I
think has surprised everybody, ourselves
included, is the sheer resilience of the
US corporate sector. And as we look
ahead into 2026, which what we think the
markets are doing, actually the
prognosis is generally better, but it
doesn't preclude us having that pe that
period of a little bit softer um
economic activity in the second half.
This is always a challenging call. Can
you price the recovery to the slowdown
we haven't had yet?
Can you do that?
I think what you've got to do is look
through it. This is the really key
point. If you want to day trade around
it, I think you're missing the point.
Right now we've got a corporate sector
which has absorbed a lot in terms of the
tariff shocks. I think the reason that
April 2nd was such a shock was suddenly
everyone went went goodness me he meant
what he said we've got tariffs suddenly
have gone from 2 and a half% to 25%. The
reason the markets looked through the
copper um issues I think is if you
actually run the numbers because of the
17 billion of imports that the US has of
copper and the significant amount that
it self-sources actually it's about 2%
impact on the effective tariff rate and
this is a market where we already know
that these are coming in somewhere in
the middle teens. So the markets have to
my mind moved on from this. They're
looking at the dominance of the tech
sector. They're looking at the AI trade.
In fact, our quant um anal an analytics
suggest that the biggest driver of
equities this quarter has actually been
the AI theme, not the tariff theme. And
that's why I think we're making all-time
highs.
And this is the reason why so many
people have come on this program and
said that they like US equities, they
don't like US debt. They like US
equities, but they're worried about the
dollar. There still is exceptionalism.
It's just in a smaller pocket, and it
has to do with AI. Are you a believer in
that? Well, I think there's you've got
to unpack US exceptionalism. And so
there's one level of US exceptionalism
which I think is probably acceptable to
the administration and that's the dollar
giving up some of its excessive
valuation. We've heard chatter about,
you know, concern around currency
manipulation. It's never really gone
away. But with the dollar weakening
because there's just simply less demand
for it, that's taking that issue away.
But we're seeing very little evidence of
this idea that the dollar is ceasing to
be king dollar, the reserve currency. I
mean 40% of global trade is invoiced in
dollars even though the US is a
counterpart in only 10%. So and the
institutional strength of the US
compared with other regions is still
paramount. So you'd need to attack both
of those bases before you'd start to
unwind the dollar. As for stocks, look,
if we unpack the S&P 500, the tech
giants continue to be global leaders on
relatively decent valuations with strong
earnings. The rest of the S&P actually
it's getting up towards quite peaky
valuations. So we do look outside. We
look for diversification. Hong Kong,
emerging markets, the UK and Europe's
beginning to look really interesting
given the fiscal thrust that's coming
next year and the fact that what we're
also seeing is the ECB be able to
respond with much easier monetary policy
because of the disinflationary impulse
that tariffs create for the rest of the
world exus.
So how do you play that? Jeanov Black
Rockck was on earlier and he said that
he liked European bonds versus uh US
government bonds, not so much European
stocks relative to those in the US. Do
you agree? I mean, do you prefer
European bonds to the US ones because of
the ECB's proclivities to possibly cut
rates even in the face of that fiscal
expenditure? Well, so we do continue to
like European bonds u in preference to
the US for the reasons that we think
that what's happened with tariffs and
all the chatter about national security
has actually forged a common purpose for
Europe that we've really not seen for
some time and so the spending that's
happening if you look at what's
happening with Germany's spending by the
middle of the 2030s it only takes German
debt to GDP to around about 80%. the
European Union, particularly Germany,
have massive fiscal headroom and we've
got the disinflationary impulse. We've
got Europe pointing in the same
direction generally now. So, it means,
you know, some of the periphery markets,
the Spanish market, the uh Italian
market, etc. look particularly
interesting as a place to pick up carry,
pick up some decent returns there. But I
wouldn't write off European equities
right now. Yes, they're a little bit
more expensive, but if I told you at the
beginning of the year, you know what,
we're going to see European earnings
expectations for 2025 go from 8% to 1%.
What would you think the market would
have done? You wouldn't expect it to
have been up 10% year to date. The
market now is pricing a very shallow
forward earnings curve just at a time
when we're about to see a significant
fiscal and monetary boost. So, we're
beginning to get quite excited about the
European asset market in general, but
certainly leading off with the bond
market.
But aren't European equities going to
the most exposed when it comes to the
tariff risks?
Well, I think what we've already seen is
that's been priced through the earnings
forwards. So we have got Europe trading
at around about 15 times forward
multiples which is you know significant
premium to where it's been over the last
10 to 15 years albeit that was a period
when Europe was resetting its balance
sheet with regard to the bank's post
Euro zone crisis. So yes there's a lot
of tariff potential impact but we also
have one of the most powerful
negotiators out there the European
Union. And so I do think that some of
the um saber rattling that we're seeing
from the White House should be taken
seriously in terms of thinking what it
means for Europe. But make no mistake,
Europe are incentivized to come to an
agreement and move forward. But what
it's also doing is it's forcing Europe
to look inwards. It's the biggest
consumer market on the planet. It's
twice the size in individuals of the
United States. And we're beginning to
see self-help, fiscal spending, monetary
support, and as a result, I think what
we can see is a little bit more uh
potential for Europe to play catch-up.
You're laughing at the Europeans.
Self-help. Chicken soup for the European
soul. I just picture this. There's
nothing quite like having a common
enemy. That's all.
They need it right now. They've got to
eat Chinese deflation. I was looking at
PPI out of China overnight. The 33rd
month of negative factory prices out of
that country.
Over. Yeah. Overprouction. And where's
it going to go? And that's really a
question and that's part of the reason
why the ECB may have the ability and
desire to cut rates.
The ECB doesn't look comfortable right
now. I have to say that listening to the
officials in the last week or so, you
make it sound quite straightforward. I
agree with you. It should be, but that's
not what I'm hearing. They're worried
about the FX channel and then doing
nothing about it.
But look at it in terms of Euro dollar
versus trade weighted euro. Excuse me.
Euro dollar has moved around 12 13%. So
that's significant for that currency
pair. But of course in trade weighted
terms, the euro's moved around 7%. So
meaningful, but bear in mind that the
bilateral trade with the US, while
clearly important to Europe, is not the
only barometer that they they look at.
We're just beginning to see a little bit
of nervousness coming out in terms of
some of the commentary from CRA around
the level of the euro, but I don't think
this is in any way panic stations yet.
And you know, if anything, when we look
at it against our long-term fair value,
again going back to Euro dollar, we see
fair value somewhere around 125. So
pushing up to the upper teens, perhaps
the 120 level this year, I don't think
is going to um scare the horses at the
ECB too much.
John, it's good to see you as always.
Thanks for dropping by and thanks for
trying to explain what Charlton Athletic
is to Amory and the commercial break.
Good attempt. John Bilton there of JP
Morgan Asset Management. What did you
say? That's not a real football club.
Well, it sounds a little bit like a
Mickey Mouse football club.
Okay. I hope Charlton's not listening
this morning. Let's give you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie
Burton. Hey, Lizzy.
From a Charlton fan, John, not happy
about that. Here's your news, though.
Investigations are underway in the
deadly Texas flash flood. They're
looking into when weather forecasters
advised local officials about flooding
and what those officials did to spread
the message to thousands in the area.
The floods killed over 100 people and
161 are still missing. Elsewhere, the
Supreme Court gave President Trump
approval to cut the size of the federal
government. The decision lifted a court
order that blocked federal departments
and agencies from slashing their work
forces. A coalition of federal
employees, nonprofits, and local
governments said that the decision quote
dealt a serious blow to our democracy.
And finally, US consumer borrowing
increased in May at the slowest pace in
3 months. Federal Reserve data shows
credit card and other revolving debt
outstanding declined $3.5 billion, the
first decrease since November.
Non-revolving debt such as loans for
vehicle purchases and school tuition
increased $8.6 billion. That should be
my brief. John
Lizzy I had no idea I apologize on
behalf of the program up next the
morning cause plus such kadali a
forester on signs Amazon's prime day is
set to disappoint their conversations
next live from New York City this
morning good morning
[Music]
So, here's the runway for the next month
or so. July 15th, CPI. 2 days later,
retail sales. Go on to July 30th, a Fed
decision. 2 days later, August 1,
payrolls the same day for the next trade
deadline. A lot still to come over the
next few weeks. Equity futures at the
moment grinding higher into it. Up 210
of 1% on the S&P. on the NASDAQ up by
0.2%. Also, that's the price action.
Here are your morning calls. First up,
Oppenheimer upgrading Microsoft to
outperform, seeing the company as one of
the long-term AI winners in software.
That stock is up by 3/4 of 1%. Your
second call from Barclays raising its
price target on Netflix to 1100,
writing, legacy media earnings could
surprise to the upside. And finally,
City raising its price target on UPS to
127, seeing balanced riskreward for
transport stocks due to a still soft
demand backdrop. The stock is positive
by 0.6%. Let's stick with a consumer.
Amazon seeing a sluggish start to its
annual Prime Day sale with sales falling
almost 14% in the event's first few
hours compared to last year. Bloomberg's
Pam Gore joins us now for more. Pam,
welcome to the program. I think our
first question, our only question really
is whether this is an Amazon problem or
a consumer issue.
I think it's a little bit of both, but
you have to remember that the event is
four days this year, not two days. So
consumers have time to come out and
spend.
Does brand Jeff Bezos and the recent
wedding dent the enthusiasm over brand
Amazon Puna? Do you see any of that at
all? Um, you know, I think consumers are
looking for deals right now and Amazon's
providing the deals. So, I think most
will just focus on the deals and their
budgets to maximize them, which Amazon
and other retailers are providing them
to do the same.
What's tickled you?
Well, I think there's just funny because
I do now think of Amazon. I I'm a little
bit like, oh, is it a little tacky
based on the wedding?
Based on the wedding. Yeah. Also, the
deal. Also, the deals, they're saying
these deals for the uh air airpods are
supposed to be the best. But if you
Google them, you can get the same exact
price on Walmart and they're not having
some special Walmart day. So, I don't
really know if there's real deals to be
had.
Pam, we saw plenty of pull forward in
the first few months of the year. The
threat of tariffs hanging over the
consumer. There is an open question as
to whether we've worked through a lot of
that pre-tariff inventory. How much
inventory is left? I think there's very
little pre-tariff inventory left as far
as what I'm seeing and what I'm hearing
from retailers is that two Q deliveries
have the tariff rate built into them and
as the rates are subject to change over
the next two quarters especially holiday
prices could rise even further. So deals
still matter and they still matter a
lot. I'd say you know we'll know a
little more in the next day or two. I
did see data this morning from numerator
which basically said the first 16 hours
of Prime Day, the average order size was
a little over $58. And if you compare
that to last year, the first um
basically more than 30 hours, the
average spend was over $60. So there is
a deceleration, but I'd say there's
still time for people to come and shop.
Pam, appreciate your time as always. Pam
Gord of Bloomberg Intelligence to extend
the conversation. Sitarita Kadali a
forester writing retailers will be more
cautious about discounting too early in
the year should there be supply chain
issues or heavier hitting tariffs
joining us now suchita suchita let's
just talk about the tariffs so far and
pick up on that last question that we
asked Punam Goyle the amount of
pre-tariff inventory there is still at
these retailers for them to work through
or are we getting to the point where
they've got to make a bigger decision
well there are so many factors to
consider with w with tariffs and the
amount of inventory that you're going to
hold because retailers just don't have
an infinite amount of cash on hand um
that they can invest their working
capital in this inventory that they want
to frontload. So, it is a balance
between frontloading the things that you
know are definitely going to sell and
are not perishable and will be able to
have some shelf life while also um
maintaining the uh the reality of how
much you're likely to do in sales. Um,
if retailers pull forward too much
inventory, what they end up doing is
that they're risking cash flow and
ultimately the lack of cash flow is what
drives retailers to bankruptcy.
So, if you put this all together, what
does it say about the prospect for
deals? We were looking through Amazon
for deals and not finding as many as we
have in the past. That doesn't speak of
desperation to clear the shelves of any
existing inventory.
My hunch is is that marketplace sellers
were probably a little bit more cautious
with what they were able to offer Amazon
in the first place. Um Amazon works um
by everything that that sellers have
shared with us. um they work long in
advance to get the deals and what has
likely happened is that tariffs earlier
this year threw a wrench into things and
as a result of that um we just saw
prices likely going up not substantially
but enough that you wouldn't necessarily
see the great deals that you'd see
otherwise. So it's not surprising that
likely there are more categories that
are now offered for sale. We certainly
are seeing a greater number of days. Um,
and over the last few years, we've seen
multiple Prime Days. Amazon now runs
this event twice a year. Um, they have
it in July and October in large part to
be able to comp the previous year's
numbers,
which really goes to the point of how
much can we really gauge or extrapolate
out consumer demand from these numbers
at a time where I know that in my
household every day is Amazon day and
it's sort of how many things can you
possibly buy. I just wonder, you know,
is that sort of your read through is
that both the sellers aren't really
offering amazing deals. They're kind of
not buying into it quite as much and the
buyers aren't rushing to frontload their
orders because they can do it at any
time. Is that kind of what we're seeing
and it kind of takes the winds out of
the sales of people who say this
indicates that consumers are falling off
a cliff.
Right. I think that what you've just
suggested, which is the truth, is that
consumers are honestly a little bit
jaded um by some of these offers that
are are out there. So, um there's the
combination of the fact that they are
not as excited. And by the way, you
know, when you have multiple types of
offers over multiple days, we've even
seen um sort of the drop off happening
around Black Friday and some of those
key dates that historically during the
holiday season were big selling dates.
But as you add more, as more retailers
have more products for sale, it's just
not as special anymore. So, you have the
jaded shopper and then on top of that,
we have all of the economic issues, the
consumer confidence issues, and the fact
that um that we did frontload a lot of
transactions in Q1 and Q2. Retail
continues to be fairly resilient and a
large part of that was the the pull
forward that we have we saw earlier this
year due to the threat of tariffs. So
Jita, you mentioned in your note later
in the year there could be supply chain
issues. What kind of supply chain issues
are you starting to think about
potentially that some of these retailers
could be hit with?
Well, it's really um if there are
ultimately some of the tariff
discussions do actually come into place.
So a lot of what has happened has been
the threat of tariffs. There are some um
some regions of the world, some product
categories that are facing higher costs
like in China. Um but for other parts of
the world there's essentially been a
moratorum. Um but that led to a lot of
uncertainty and a lot of concerns around
well let's get ahead of this and let's
pull forward whatever we can both from a
consumer standpoint as well as a
merchandiser standpoint um for the where
wherever that was possible. Now we are
coming up to the 90-day um limit and
what we may see is the resumption of
some of those threats of tariffs even in
regions in the world where we haven't
seen them before. So other parts of the
far east or um or India or or even
products coming from Europe. So in that
case, in that scenario, um you're
absolutely going to to see um either
higher prices, which will lead to
inflation, or you're going to see just
lower inventory availability because the
retailer simply going to be buying to um
what is absolutely essential and not
have any excess inventory in stock.
Suchita, great to get your thoughts.
Such Kadali there at Forester, the
latest on Amazon Prime Day, what
retailers are doing. It's a process and
that process is continuing. They had to
work through a lot of pre-tariff
inventory and then we can figure out how
much they're going to take on margin.
Once we figure out how much they're
going to take on margin, you can start
to do some sums about what it could mean
for cost cutting elsewhere, including
the labor market. And that might be
months and months down the road still
from here.
So, if you're looking for clarity, you
know, maybe hope can be your strategy.
But right now, it doesn't seem like
that's the case. As we were talking, I
got an Amazon Prime email tailored for
me
with some specific deals. 25% off socks,
32% foil off hand steamers, handheld
steamers, 45% against hand exercisers.
This is the kind of stuff I I'm
revealing way too much about myself.
Yeah, exactly.
What bears like too much?
Yeah. Gold bars.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly. You know, that's
that long life coffee and all of that
stuff.
Yeah. Those like, you know, emergency
packs that you see
those preppers.
Yeah, totally. That's you know, I find
that fascinating.
What What are those meals called where
it's sort of like the forever bar that
you can eat that can give you some
sausage? But they're pretty gross.
Have you tried them?
No, I don't want to either. Let's hope
we're never in the circumstances where
we have to eat that stuff. All right,
coming up on the program, Nancy Lazar of
Piper Sandler as the pressure builds on
Fed Chair J Pal. Plus, Yahara Arnand
with your morning movers and a big deal
for big farmer live from New York. This
is Bloomberg.
[Music]
The up in about 16 minutes away. Equity
futures positive by two ten of 1%. and a
struggle to bounce back from Monday's
trade related losses, but a mild day of
losses in yesterday's session. A small
bounce on the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.2. In
the bond market, 2-year, 10year, and
30-year. A focus at the front end of the
curve and the big Fed debate. Yield tied
by single basis point at 39032.
Further out along the curve, a big
conversation about the prospect of
inflation firming. Plus, what could it
mean if you get a Fed share that comes
along and does exactly what the
president wants long before the data
demands it? Will that contribute to
higher long-end yields? This morning,
44152 yields higher for a sixth
consecutive session. We're higher by
another two basis points. That's the
cross asset price action. Let's cross
over to Yahara Arnard for some single
names. Hey, Yahara.
Good morning, John. We start with some
big news in the pharma space. some deal
news that we did talk about earlier, but
now it's official. Merc has agreed to
buy the UK biotech Verona Pharma for
about $10 billion. So, as a result, take
a look at Verona Pharma. It is up more
than 20% and it's a strategic bet for
Merc on respiratory medicine at a time
when it's trying to diversify. That's
because its top selling cancer drug, the
patent on its top selling cancer drug is
expiring soon. So, it is looking for
ways to offset that. Next up, we have a
really big mover in RX site. Shares are
down nearly 50% now. That's because the
company, which makes lenses used in
cataract surgery, slashed its 2025
forecast by $55 million. A big shock to
investors as you can see. And it's
spurring a number of downgrades this
morning. And we end on Starbucks rising
3%. Now on our reporting that the
company is considering selling a bigger
stake in its China business. That's a
shift since Starbucks had originally
planned to keep a tight grip by only
selling a minority stake. But with sales
struggling and competition heating up in
its second biggest market. We are
reporting that it is sifting through
offers and narrowing down a list of
potential investors to try and make a
deal. John
Yara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Appreciate it. Let's get to the
day ahead. It looks like this. Fed
minutes later on this afternoon, another
Treasury auction at 1 p.m. Eastern time.
$39 billion of 10-year notes. With the
latest, let's cross over to Mike McKe.
Good morning, Mike.
Good morning, John. I think uh today
probably the Fed minutes will get some
attention, but given the fact that the
president is going to be releasing more
tariff letters today, by the time we get
to the Fed's discussion of what they
were thinking three weeks ago, it may be
mostly irrelevant, although people will
be looking to see what the discussion
was about why they kept two rate cuts in
the forecast for the year. Uh now uh as
far as the 10-year uh the question has
been are we going to see some sort of
buyer strike by people from overseas who
are unhappy with the United States and
the general feeling on Wall Street seems
to be not yet that uh there's enough
demand out there. There might be a
little supply concession, but overall uh
there's still demand for tens and any
real movement based on what the
president is saying about Jay Powell and
others would really occur at the 2-year
level for the moment.
Mike, any thoughts on a Fed race, Kevin
Walsh versus Kevin Hasset, and whether
we're seeing some auditioning already on
the FOMC?
Well, I think there's been auditioning.
Definitely auditioning. Uh, I think that
Kevin Worsh is probably the favorite
still. Uh, Kevin Hasset very loyal and
probably seen as the guy who would push
for lowest rates, but what kind of
reception would he get on Wall Street?
That's something that Scott Bessant is
going to be h have to be weighing when
he gives advice to the president about
this. Uh, assuming that Mr. Bess isn't
putting himself forward. Uh, and then
the, you know, the question that they
keep raising is what if J. Pal doesn't
quit as a governor? They would only have
one seat. They'd have to put the new
chair into uh the seat that comes up in
January. And so does that mean that
maybe they keep Chris Waller in reserve
just in case they uh they can't get
somebody else?
This could get messy. Mike McKe,
appreciate the update. Looking forward
to your reporting throughout the day.
Michael McKe there from Jackson, I
believe over at an economic forum over
there.
Yeah, they do a lot of economic forums
in Jackson, Wyoming, evident.
Why not? It's any excuse, right? You
know, can we just separate out the drama
and have that sort of like you can watch
the melodrama if you want to but then
watch paint dry over here which is the
actual policy which is going to depend
on all this economic data that's going
to come through the four. I think that
would be great you know
do that right now.
Okay, cool.
If you want Nancy Lazarov Piper Sander
with this to say investors might be done
with tariffs but we doubt Trump's tariff
agenda is done with investors. Nancy
joins us now for more. Nancy, good
morning.
Good morning.
What is guiding you at the moment? What
convinces you of that? Well, uh to be
sure, this administration wants higher
tariffs. They've already put in higher
tariffs and they're going to uh and
they're going to stick. We've accepted
the fact that tariffs are here are here
to stay. Um why uh we do need a freer
trade uh backdrop. Uh and two, I think
misguided uh this administration thinks
net this is positive for the United
States. I'm a free market economist. Uh
tariffs are a bad idea. Nonetheless, I
have to accept that they are uh indeed
indeed indeed here and they're going to
be a negative impact on the economy.
It's a regressive tax on consumers. Uh
lower-end consumers are going to get hit
more because of these higher because of
these higher prices and same for small
and medium-sized businesses. Larger
businesses might be able to plow through
this. Uh but the smaller medium-sized
part of the economy are going to get
squeezed from these higher prices. When
you take the politics out of it, is this
more inflationary or more of a slowing
slowing growth type of uh ramification
from the tariffs?
Well, near-term, it's it it's a it's a
tax. It's a hit on it's a hit on the
economy. Whether or not it turns into
sustained inflation depends upon what
both monetary and fiscal policy do. I
would worry about the Fed stepping in
and easing cutting rates too
aggressively here because that would
just increase the odds that these price
levels indeed stick. When you've seen
tariffs before, when we had some back in
2018, it was a price shock. You saw it
in in in furniture, household
appliances, uh you initially had that
increase in price, but then you had a
decline in demand and that eventually
led to a lower uh lower prices actually
for household appliances and furniture.
So, it it depends um how sustainable
these are on what the Fed on what the
Fed does.
I want to just uh hone in on something
that you said. If the Fed cuts, you
think that that would lead to more
protracted price increases and more sort
of entrenched inflation. What gives you
the confidence to say that at a time
where we're seeing on the margins some
slowing in consumer spending and
certainly deterioration in consumer
confidence?
Well, as we saw, and this is no nowhere
near as extreme as we saw during the
COVID crisis, you can have a temporary
shift down in demand. Um, but uh
inflation is a function of what the
Federal Reserve does, monetary and
fiscal policy does. So even though you
had that shift down in demand in in 20
and 2020 because both monetary fiscal
policy eased so aggressively um you then
net had uh price levels stayed elevated
with that supply chain disruption and
then you had the inflation in 21 into
into 22. So near-term yes we are having
a shift down uh shift down in demand um
which could uh lead to lower prices say
later this year next year. But if the
Fed were to cut rates too aggressively
um then I would again be worried about
inflation in 20 uh in 2026. And I
thought your point on the bond market
here is going to be really important. Uh
the Fed cut rates last year 100 basis
points. Everyone seems to forget about
that. They cut rates 100 basis points in
the fourth uh in the in the fall of last
year. What did bond yields do? They rose
100 basis points. So the Fed controls
the short end of the curve and I think
some of the administration understands
that but they have to be careful of the
long end. Will the Fed have enough
information to cut by September given
the fact especially that the tariff
deadline has been pushed out to August
1st?
I worry about that because uh we saw the
employment report on the surface uh
looked healthy underneath the hood. It
was actually a weak uh employment report
but on the surface it looked healthy. I
would have thought it would have been
easier for the Fed actually to have cut
rates here in July where you really
still have tame inflation and signs of
an economic slowdown. I worry by
September um you could have maybe
clearer signs of a weak a weaker economy
but stickier inflation. I I I am hearing
from uh from retailers that they're done
with inventories uh preco the the the
pre-tariff uh increase in inventories.
They're they're they're fading now they
are uh going to be selling these higher
price products uh in the third uh in the
third quarter related to the tariff
increases. So, I worry about September,
but a cycle or one price adjustment.
Again, for right now, it's a one price
shift up in price as we saw in 2018, but
uh the the we don't have the conclusion.
It depends upon how aggressive the Fed
is.
When you say you're worried about
September, are you worried about the
price side of things or you worried
about what could happen to the labor
market if they have to absorb some of
this on margin? Well, I think you you're
going to increasingly hear stagflation
uh as you go through the third quarter
because already you're seeing consumer
spending stalling out already. Again,
under the hood, the labor market is
deteriorating. Unemployment claims are
probably the easiest number to show that
cleanest number uh to show that. So, I
worry that as you go through the third
quarter, the Fed is going to have to
really balance it. On one hand, you are
will have a weaker economy. GDP growth
we have less than 1% uh in the third uh
third quarter probably a higher
unemployment rate but then the inflation
data could be uh also more more sticky
and and and you're seeing it uh in the
data uh shelter was a good uh was a
headwind to inflation in the second
quarter is that going to continue uh
into into the third quarter as these
tariffs uh make their way through into
the data
and that's as you know there's a range
of views that the Federal Reserve this
FOMC is incredibly divided one view I
think is quite important at the moment
is Governor Wallace view and Governor
Waller is making I think a credible
argument to say you should look through
the inflationary re effects potentially
of tariffs and maybe think about
reducing interest rates. Do you find
that particularly compelling?
I I I I I don't u one I think if you
look through the tariffs in aggregate
the economy actually is on a healthier
footing. This is a soft patch volatility
created from the uncertainty uh and the
tariff and the price uh and the price
increases. Um as I've said before and I
focus a lot on capital spending uh the
fiscal you have incremental fiscal
stimulus for 2020 uh 2026 importantly
for capital spending which has boosted
potential GDP growth already um you
don't need a lower interest rate
environment as some some of you you have
reported this morning there's a lot of
liquidity in the markets that's why this
this M&A cycle is is picking uh is is is
picking up and and I would I would be
leery in cutting rates too aggressively.
Um, one, the economy is is healthy. Uh,
with stronger potential GDP growth. We
have basically a 4% unemployment rate.
Cycllically, it's going to go up a
little bit, but we don't need lower
interest rates. This is not uh 20089.
It's not a COVID crisis. I think rates
should stay where they are. So, John, I
was thinking as Nancy was talking, if
you wanted to explain stagflation, there
is one economist, Donald Trump, who
really put it perfectly when he said
just a few months ago, you know, maybe
you need just $2 that cost a little bit
more rather than 30. And maybe that's
what we're seeing trickle out into the
economy.
Is that the argument he's making now?
I don't know if that he really wants to
go back the same thing.
Maybe not. I do wonder though about
where the inflation comes from. If you
do see consumers in not as strong of a
position, you pointed to the labor
market and the weakening that we're
seeing in certain certainly the private
payrolls report. Where is it going to
come from in terms of fueling the
ongoing ability to absorb the price
increases? So in it will have to come
from stronger corporate profits. I mean
because if you have a stronger corporate
profit backdrop then you'll get a
stronger labor market. You'll get bigger
wage increases. And so uh near-term
profits are under pressure. 2Q earnings
are probably going to decline. uh not
year-over-year but sequ uh uh uh
sequentially which is why you have this
weaker this weaker labor market. So you
need this soft patch to end um which we
think can end on its own without lower
rates uh in uh 2026 because of this
incremental fiscal uh and importantly
because of the capital spending uh cycle
and so the investment cycle fuels uh
productivity productivity fuels
profitability and that then net is how
you get a stronger uh job uh a job a job
market. Nancy, we hope you're right.
It's good to see you.
Thanks for your time.
Thanks for dropping by. Thanks for your
time. Nancy Lazada of Piper Sandler.
Equities at the moment positive by about
two ten of 1% on the S&P with an update
on stories elsewhere with your morning
brief, your Bloombo brief. Here is
Lizzie Burden. Hey Lizzie.
Hey John. President Trump said he will
push forward with a 50% tariff on
imports of copper into the US. The
announcement sent copper prices plunging
in the global benchmark. Trump is
looking to spur more mining and smelting
states side and the tariff can be in
place within weeks. Elsewhere, a
leadership shakeup for Apple. COO Jeff
Williams is retiring from his post later
this year with plans to continue to
oversee the design team and to manage
health initiatives. 30-year Apple
veteran Sabi Khn will replace Williams
as COO. And Tesla CEO Elon Musk telling
Wedbush analyst Dan Ives to quote shut
up in a post on X. His comment coming in
response to Dan's call for Tesla's board
of directors to get involved after Musk
unveiled his bid to start a new
political party. And that should be my
brief. John
Lizzie, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next on the program, we'll
set you up for the day ahead. Plus,
Leslie Falconeio of UBS as investors
face President Trump's latest tariff
threat. From New York City, this is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Mild gains so far this morning. Positive
by a quarter of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ up by 210 of 1%. The day gets
busier as the session grows older. Your
day ahead looks a little something like
this. 1 p.m. Eastern time, the US
Treasury auctioning $39 billion in 10ear
notes. 2 p.m. we get some Fed minutes.
On Thursday, we'll get Delta earnings.
So, look out for that alongside some
jobless claims and another auction. This
time, 30-year notes. The focus on
economic sentiment results from Delta
Airlines tomorrow morning. Leslie
Falconeio of UBS writing the following.
US consumers and businesses increase
spending in advance of actual and
threatened tariff increases. That boost
is now fading and will begin to drag on
growth in a second half. Leslie joins us
now for more. Leslie, thanks for joining
us. Just to build on that particular
quote there, where do you expect to see
that show up and how soon?
Well, I mean, you know, we're we're
expecting in the second half, probably
not. I mean, obviously the the GDP in
the second quarters is going to be
strong. We're going to start to see
probably some slowing growth in, you
know, the third and fourth quarters
simply as we've had a pull forward in
both businesses, you know, and
consumers. So, our expectation is that
the Fed does cut in September, you know,
twice this year, but with for a total of
about 100 basis points. So, we're
looking for about 25 basis points
consecutively each meeting starting in
September.
Some debate at the moment between a lot
of people as to whether they should
price the recovery in 26 off the back of
the rate cuts that we might see from
September onwards or the slowdown that
you're forecasting for the second half.
Which one?
Well, listen, I think you it's a
sequencing issue, right? I think people
are focused on tariffs right now and the
cost that tariffs will have in terms of
consumer and, you know, therefore
potential inflation. But in 2026, it's
going to be about more about tax cuts.
So, I think it's more about about a
sequencing issue. And if in fact, you
know, growth does slow again, not
collapse, we're expecting these
nonrecessionary cuts and you have some
stimulus in 2026, you could see an
upward trend trend growth. And I think
that's what's really what the markets
are paying attention to.
One of the big challenges here is the
inflation picture. And we're saying this
ahead of next week's CPI report. I'm
looking right now at 5year 5-year break
even rates. basically the expected
inflation over the next 5 to 10 years as
baked into derivatives and it's actually
at the highest level right now going
back to uh to February and I just wonder
if the Fed has the bandwidth to cut
rates the way that so many people are
expecting including yourself given that
there is this fear that is percolating
into certainly markets if not into what
we're hearing from retailers
you know listen there's no question and
you've talked about this before and I
happen to agree if the Fed does cut
prematurely, you do run the risk of that
back end moving higher and you have this
really large bare steepener. But even
though the 5year 5year inflation might
be up a little bit, it's still very well
anchored. And when you look at some of
the components of service inflation, I
know we've been focused a lot on goods
inflation, but if you look at some of
the components of service inflation
within say, you know, the CPI OER year
over year is down. You know, auto
insurance year-over-year is down. So
there are these service inflation
commodities where you haven't seen this
really large spike but that but to your
point Lisa it's definitely something
that the market is going to be watching
and there's no question that market
perception you know if the Fed does cut
too early is going to react you know
before the actual fundamental data is
shown and that's really the risk that
the Fed faces right now.
So at 1 p.m. we've got $39 billion of
10-year bonds being sold and then
tomorrow we have $22 billion of 30-year
treasuries also being auctioned off. How
closely are you watching the internals,
the dynamics to understand just exactly
what the zeitgeist is in markets that
could drive action and potentially even
your strategy?
Yeah, I mean look, we we're watching the
10-year auction today. We do expect some
concessions. There's no question. It's
not, you know, just because we've had
some, you know, renewed tariff headlines
and maybe this is, you know, will
increase inflation going forward. But a
lot of this has to do with the fact that
we had a strong jobs report. People came
into that jobs report, I think long
duration. and they had to shed some. So,
I do think we are expecting some
concession into the 10-year Treasury
auction, but we still expect it to go
well. And again, you know, our, you
know, point on the curve since going
back to 2024 has been to stay in the
intermediate and that 5year, the yield
curve, and that's really worked out well
for us. It's been a great hedge during
those pockets of vulnerability in the
equity market. It's had a great total
return. And we're often asked, when
would you extend? When would you move
your duration out? You know, listen, it
wouldn't be impossible or un or a small
probability that we see the high of the
10-year Treasury yield that we saw in
January around that 480. Would we start
to extend and have that buy the dip
mentality? We absolutely do, but we're
not rushing in.
Well, what would make you get there
though? Like what could be the catalyst
in terms of in terms of rising rates?
Yes.
Yeah. I mean, listen, it could be one,
the Fed cuts prematurely. too.
Obviously, this inflation that we're
seeing um the turns out to be a bit
higher than what we expect and not and
what I'm saying that it's not just
having inflation come into the numbers,
but how quickly it does, right? If it's
this gradual rise in inflation, then
that's one thing or if it's much quicker
than what we're expecting. I mean, if
you look at PCE projections at the end
of the year at about three and a half,
say percent. You still have to run a
threemonth average about four. So I mean
I and those kinds of you know uh you
know numbers I think would really move
that those yields higher. I don't
believe it's deficit driven. I've said
this before on your show. I think you
know supply is a passenger not a driver.
It's about inflation and growth in that
long end. But if you do see something
that inflation's coming in faster right
than what people are anticipating then
you could get it.
You said earlier the market right now is
focused on tariffs but next year it's
going to be 2026 is going to be about
the tax cuts. What tax cuts
specifically? because what we saw in the
one big beautiful bill in terms of the
big chunk of the cuts, it's only an
extension of the current policy we have
today. You're absolutely right and and I
do think that you know the market's
perception of I think when we look at
especially if you look at 7% of deficit
versus nominal GDP if if most of that is
of that GDP is already into the
marketplace and I agree with you then I
think what the market is is looking at
in terms of the benefit of terms of
whether it's capex or the fact that it
does believe that the that the Fed does
cut which should fuel growth and I think
that also you no one expects third and
fourth quarter growth to be, you know,
incredibly high. Even though we're
looking at a one and a half percent GDP
in the fourth quarter, those third and
fourth quarter numbers are going to be
below trend. So, I think you're going to
have that upward slope in terms of that
growth outlook in terms of 2026 as well.
But that is the risk. There's no
question.
Leslie, appreciate your time. Leslie
Falconeio there of UBS looking ahead to
a whole bunch of risks in the second
half. Look at this right now. Peter
Navaro, trade adviser to the president
of the United States saying Apple thinks
it's too big to tariff. Apple just
moments ago turning negative in the
pre-market down about two ten of 1%.
Yeah, this just points to the idea of
you have to be in the good graces of
this administration. If Apple was
looking for a carveout, Peter Navaro
isn't the one that's going to give it to
him to them and they aren't going to be
the one to really signal it either. I do
wonder how much the president is going
to pit himself against the tech giants
that have gotten so much of the
preeminence in US equity. What's
interesting is because everyone says
India is going to be that deal that the
president announced in terms of a
framework that's imminent. What have we
seen over the past few years when it
comes to Apple moving supply chains out
of China into India potentially? Are
they going to be hit with a rate that's
going to make it very challenging for
them? And Peter Navaro, he's not at the
negotiating table, but he is very close
to the president. He goes in and out of
the West Wing and he has the
presidencier and he's saying that maybe
Apple is going to be one the president
looks at next.
Apple is not having a good year so far.
The stock is down by about 16%. Tariffs
is one story. Mexico going after their
talent is another story. Here's one
more. This from Peter Navaro. The Fed
should cut rates in July.
This is my shock face.
Who hasn't said that in this
administration?
This is sort of the onpoint message that
you have to put out there. They're too
late. It's too late. Powell. Not even
too late. Powell. It's just too late.
That's his name. TL. Uh and you know he
needs to go now. I guess there is a
growing number of people in markets who
agree with them. It's the argument that
they make and how salient that will be
because if it is about the deficit and
lowering costs that is not going to
resonate well with markets versus a
discussion about slowing inflation and a
lack of inflationary pressure coming
from the labor market.
Neil Dutter of Renmack just moments ago
saying that Trump has created a lipmus
test for his Fed nominee. They have to
agree to cutting interest rates. This
makes nearly all of the potential
candidates look totally compromised.
went on to say this. If Trump values
feeling the market, he may end up having
no choice but to pick Governor Waller.
An argument that Neil's made a few
times.
You need the credibility in order for
the Fed, to your point that you said
earlier, to have the ability to cut
rates because ultimately it depends on
that credibility that they will be
willing to hike rates if there is a
problem with inflation.
We've all said this repeatedly. There
will be two votes. one at the Senate and
before it gets there, one in this market
and this market will vote very quickly
about the credibility of whoever the
candidate is. Coming up on the program
tomorrow, the lineup looks like this.
Lizanne Saunders of Charles Schwab, Mike
Zes of Morgan Stanley, Holly O'Neal, the
president of retail banking at Bank of
America, and Axana Aronof of JP Morgan
Asset Management, plus a special guest,
the former US vice president, Mike
Pence, live from New York City. Thank
you for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg surveillance.
[Music]